# v0.28.0 release changelogs

The main goal of this new release is to stabilize the Meilisearch API 🚀

This release introduces a lot of breaking changes (especially regarding names), and we are sorry for this. The purpose is to guarantee what we care about the most—providing the best search engine experience—by stabilizing the Meilisearch API. There should not be any breaking changes to the API in the future.

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), the official documentation is not updated yet, but will be ready for the official v0.28.0 release. The work-in-progress documentation is available [here]().

## New features 🚀

### Smart crop

The smart crop is an improvement of the Meilisearch crop.

The cropping algorithm tries to find the window(s) with the highest density of query terms within the `cropLength` limit. From these, it picks the window that contains the most query terms in order.

Done by @ManyTheFish (#2408)

### API key management: deterministic keys

- It is now possible to create a deterministic `key` value by specifying a `uid` field at creation. `uid` is a `uuidv4`. If omitted, Meilisearch generates it.
- Adds a `name` field: specify a human-readable `name` to make API key retrieval more convenient.
- Introduces new actions to manage API keys (`keys.get`, `keys.create`, `keys.update`, `keys.delete`).
- It is no longer possible to update an API key's `actions`, `indexes`, or `expiresAt` after creation.

Done by @ManyTheFish in #2438, #2451, #2475, and #2474)

### Hebrew language support

New language support: Hebrew, using the [Niqqud library](https://github.com/benny-n/niqqud).

Done by the amazing @benny-n in meilisearch/charabia#101.

### New tokenizer contribution experience: add your language to Meilisearch

The contribution experience in the tokenizer has been significantly improved.

If your language is missing in Meilisearch, please consider contributing to [the Meilisearch tokenizer](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia) by following the CONTRIBUTING.md file and integrating your intended normalizer/segmenter.

The whole core team is available to help you contribute. Feel free to ask for any clarifications you need!

Done by @ManyTheFish, @loiclec @gmourier, and @curquiza.

# Breaking changes and improvement ⚠️

<!-- The following line should only be put in the official release changelogs, not for the RC -->
For most of the following changes, if you use [one of our SDKs](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/what_is_meilisearch/sdks.html), these changes will be transparent for you by only updating to the latest version of the SDK.

### Changes in `/indexes/{uid}/search` endpoint

- `nbHits` is renamed `estimatedNbHits`. Some users were confused by the old name and used it for their pagination, which we discourage. Please check out this [fresh new guide]() to learn how to paginate with Meilisearch without using `nbHits`.
- The `facetsDistribution` search parameter is renamed `facets`
- The `facetsDistribution` field in the response body is renamed `facetDistribution`
- The `matches` search parameter is renamed `showMatchesPosition`
- The `_matchesInfo` field in the response body is renamed `_matchesPosition`
- `exhaustiveNbHits` and `exhaustiveFacetsCount` are removed. Meilisearch does not return exhaustive hit or facet counts at this time.

Done by @irevoire in #2406.

### Changes in `/indexes` endpoints

- When getting the index list (`GET /indexes`), the response is now paginated. That means:
  - You can use the `offset` and `limit` parameters to browse indexes.
  - The indexes are returned in the `results` field in the response body.
  - `limit`, `offset`, and `total` now appear in the response body.
- The endpoint to update an index is now `PATCH /indexes/{indexUid}` instead of `PUT`
- The already deprecated `name` field returned in the response body is totally removed.

Done by @irevoire and @Kerollmops in #2423, #2452, and #2454.

### Changes in `indexes/{uid}/documents` endpoints

- When getting the documents via the `GET /indexes/{uid}/documents` route, the pagination has been improved. It means:
  - You can still use the `offset` and `limit` parameters to browse the indexes.
  - The documents are returned in the `results` field in the response body.
  - The `limit`, `offset`, and `total` are also now available in the response body.
- When getting the documents via the `GET /indexes/{uid}/documents` route, the `attributesToRetrieve` parameter has been renamed into `fields`
- The `fields` parameter is available for the `GET /indexes/{uid}/documents/{document_uid}` route.
- The [`displayedAttributes` settings](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/displayed_attributes.html) does not impact the `indexes/{uid}/documents` anymore, but ony the `/indexes/{uid}/search` endpoints.

Done by @irevoire in #2372, #2433, and #2454.

### Changes in `/tasks` and `/indexes/{uid}/tasks` endpoints

- Add filtering on the `GET /tasks` endpoint:
  - Add filtering capabilities on `type`, `status` and `indexUid` for `GET` `task` lists endpoints.
  - It is possible to specify several values for a filter using the `,` character. e.g. `?status=enqueued,processing`
  - Between two different filters, an `AND` operation is applied. e.g. `?status=enqueued&type=indexCreation` is equivalent to `status=enqueued AND type = indexCreation`
- Add keyset pagination on the `GET /tasks` endpoints, allowing users to browse multiple sets of `task` items.
  - You can use the `limit`, `from` query parameters to browse the tasks.
  - The tasks are still returned in the `result` field in the response body.
  - The `limit`, `from`, and `next` are available in the response body.
- Remove `GET /indexes/:indexUid/tasks` is removed. It can be replaced by `GET /tasks?indexUid=:indexUid`
- Remove `GET /indexes/:indexUid/tasks/:taskUid` is removed.
- Rename `uid` to `taskUid` in the response body returned by every asynchronous task (ex: index creation, document addition...)
- Rename some task properties
  - `documentPartial`-> `documentAdditionOrUpdate`
  - `documentAddition`-> `documentAdditionOrUpdate`
  - `clearAll` -> `documentDeletion`

Done by Kerollmops in #2399 and #2445.

### Changes regarding the dumps

- Dump creation becomes an asynchronous task. It means the dump task is put at the end of the task queue but will be processed in priority.
- `POST /dumps` now returns `202` like any other asynchronous operation (e.g. index creation, document addition...
- The `GET /dumps/:dump_uid/status` route is removed because not useful anymore, use `GET /tasks` instead.
- Remove the `dump_already_processing` error when a dump is already processed since they can now be enqueued.

Done by @MarinPostma in #2410

### Changes in `/keys` endpoint

- Regarding the tenant token: `apiKeyPrefix` is renamed `apiKeyUid`
- Once a key is created, you cannot update `actions`, `indexes`, `expireAt` anymore. Only the `name` and `description` fields are updatable. You can delete and re-create the key if needed.
- When getting the key list (`GET /keys`), the keys are now paginated. It means:
  - You can use the `offset` and `limit` parameters to browse the indexes.
  - The keys are still returned in the `result` field in the response body.
  - The `limit`, `offset`, and `total` are available in the response body.
- Due to all the changes on the `keys` resources, the dump's compatibility is not full with API keys. It means the keys created with an old version of Meilisearch will be imported with the same `actions` and `indexes` values, but the `key` and `uid` fields will be regenerated. You will need to update your keys.
- The `dumps.get` action is removed.

Done by @ManyTheFish in #2438, #2451, #2475, and #2474)

### Changes in `/indexes/{uid}/settings` endpoints

The changes only concern the HTTP methods

- The endpoint to update the global settings is now `PATCH /indexes/{indexUid}/settings`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the typo-tolerance settings is now `PATCH /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/typo-tolerance`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the displayed attributes settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/displayed-attributes`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the distinct attribute settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/distinct-attribute`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the filterable attribute settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/filterable-attributes`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the ranking rules settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/ranking-rules`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the searchable attributes settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/searchable-attributes`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the sortable attributes settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/sortable-attributes`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the stop-words settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/stop-words`  instead of `POST`
- The endpoint to update the synonyms settings is now `PUT /indexes/{indexUid}/settings/synonyms`  instead of `POST`

Done by @Kerollmops in #2452

### Limit of 1000 for facet value

<!-- Currently in the RC, but can be changed -->
For performance reasons, the limit of facet values is now 1000.

Done by Kerollmops in #2468 and meilisearch/milli#535

# Other improvements 🔨

- Geo-search: Support string type for `_geo` `lat` and `lng` fields (#2408 and meilisearch/milli#523) @irevoire
- Improve ranking rules error message (meilisearch/milli#536, #2468) @matthias-wright
- Remove the connection keep-alive timeout (#2471) @Thearas

# Misc

- Telemetry: handle the `X-Meilisearch-Client` header (#2374) @irevoire
- Telemetry: send the analytics to `telemetry.meilisearch.com` instead of segment (#2429) @irevoire
- Create custom error types for `TaskType`, `TaskStatus`, and `IndexUid` (#2460) @walterbm
- Some internal changes (#2447, #2464, #2453, #2455) @MarinPostma @Kerollmops
- Update dependencies (#2450) @Kerollmops
- Add dump tests in CI (#2357) @irevoire
- Deny warnings in CI (#2339) @MarinPostma
- Change Nelson path (#2347) @curquiza
- Re-integrate Clippy in the CI (#2424) @irevoire
- Fix typo in README (#2448) @ryanrussell
- Fix typo in code base comments (#2459) @ryanrussel
- Update url of `movies.json` in README (#2422) @0x0x1
- Fix command in README (#2434) @0x0x1

----

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @0x0x1, @ryanrussel, @Thearas, and @walterbm
- [Milli](https://github.com/meilisearch/milli): @matthias-wright
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @benny-n
