# v0.29.0 release changelogs

In this release, we integrate a demanded feature: the possibility to require that all query terms are present in search results. Some users have been stuck in the pre-0.21 versions due to that.
We also made a lot of improvements regarding the indexing speed!

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), the official documentation is not updated yet, but will be ready for the official v0.29.0 release. The work-in-progress documentation is available [here]().

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Customize matching strategy

It's now possible to control ow Meilisearch matches documents during the search by choosing to return only documents containing **all** the query words.

### How to activate it?

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "american ninja", "matchingStrategy": "all" }'
```

Here Meilisearch will only return documents containing "american" AND "ninja".

By default, Meilisearch will still return documents containing all the query words, followed by documents that don't contain all the query words.

<!-- The following line should only be put in the official release changelogs, not for the RC -->
Check out the [documentation]().

Made by @ManyTheFish in #2578 and meilisearch/milli#598.

## Thai language support

Thai is now supported 🇹🇭

If your language is missing in Meilisearch, please consider contributing to the [Meilisearch tokenizer](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia) by following the CONTRIBUTING.md file and integrating your intended normalizer/segmenter.

The whole core team is available to help you contribute. Feel free to ask for any clarifications!

Made by our dear contributor @aFluffyHotdog and by @ManyTheFish in meilisearch/charabia#114, meilisearch/charabia#115, meilisearch/milli##611, and #2636.

## Performance improvements for indexing

We improved the indexing speed, especially for `filterableAttributes` and document update and deletion.

For people wanting information about the main improvements, check out the following issues: meilisearch/product#513 and meilisearch/product#520.

Made by @loiclec and @irevoire in #2689, #2690, meilisearch/milli#607, meilisearch/milli#606, meilisearch/milli#587, meilisearch/milli#557,meilisearch/milli#579, and meilisearch/milli#590.

## Filtering: introduce the `EXISTS` and `IN` operators

You can now use the `EXISTS` and `IN` operators with the `filter` search parameter during [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html#search-in-an-index-with-post-route).

With the following set of documents:

```json
{ "id": 1, "product": "T-shirt", "price": 20, "color": "yellow" }
{ "id": 2, "product": "T-shirt",              "color": "red" }
{ "id": 3, "product": "T-shirt", "price": 30 }
{ "id": 4, "product": "T-shirt", "price": 40 }
```

- The filter `price EXISTS` will select documents `1`, `3`, and `4`.
- The filter `price IN [30, 20]` will select documents `1` and `3`.

These operators can be combined with the already existing `NOT` (`!=`) operator.
More about [filtering](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/getting_started/filtering_and_sorting.html).

Made by @loiclec in #2636, meilisearch/milli#596, and meilisearch/milli#556.

## Key management

When managing [keys](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/security/master_api_keys.html#protecting-a-meilisearch-instance), the `*` helper can now be used to express a set of actions in the `actions` array.

For example, instead of specifying `indexes.create`, `indexes.get`, `indexes.update`, `indexes.delete`; it's now possible to specify `indexes.*`.

Made by our dear contributors @Mcdostone and @phdavis1027 in #2080 and #2579.

## Meilisearch metrics - Beta

We integrated [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) formatted metrics endpoint.

You can activate it by launching Meilisearch using `--enable-metrics-route` (or setting the `MEILI_ENABLE_METRICS_ROUTE` environment variable) and calling the `GET /metrics` route.

This is a beta feature for now. We first need to ensure the [current metrics we provide are useful](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/496) before making it stable.

Made by @pavo-tusker in #2657.

# Behavior changes ⚠️

## Auto-batching

This previously experimental feature is now activated by default.

For people who activated it in previous versions using `--enable-auto-batching`, you need to remove this flag when running Meilisearch. All the previous settings (`--debounce-duration-sec`, `--max-batch-size` and `--max-documents-per-batch`) have been removed.

For people who hadn't activated it, it does not change anything but increases the indexing speed 🏎️

If there are any issues during indexing, the `--disable-auto-batching` flag (or the environment variable `MEILI_DISABLE_AUTO_BATCHING`) is available.

Made by @Kerollmops in meilisearch/milli#561, #2523, and #2677.

## `!=` (`NOT`) filter operator

This behavior change is consistent with the `EXISTS` and `IN` operators. The `NOT` filter now also matches documents that don't have the related attributes.
More explanation with examples [here](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2486).

Made by @loiclec in #2636, and meilisearch/milli#596.

# Fixes 🐞

* Clamp databases max size to a multiple of system page size (#2662) @ManyTheFish
* Prevent removing whitespace trimming during document id validation (#2636 and meilisearch/milli#599) @ManyTheFish
* Support https in `print_launch_resume` (#2664) @evpeople
* Filters can not accept unquoted reserved keywords as field names/values (#2636 and meilisearch/milli#596) @loiclec
* Fix filtering selection (#2636 and meilisearch/milli#568) @GraDKh

# Misc

* Completely rework the README (#2504) @CaroFG, @curquiza, @guimachiavelli, and @gmourier
* Add analytics to the `/stats` routes (#2674) @irevoire
* Update link to Cloud beta form (#2625) @davelarkan
* Fix typo (#2508, #2517, #2556) @ryanrussell
* Use nightly for `cargo fmt` in CI (#2519) @curquiza
* Fix content of dump/assets for testing (#2544) @loiclec
* Add Dependabot for GHA (#2561) @curquiza
* Update Docker credentials (#2539) @curquiza
* Add new CI: cron GHA to create an issue "Update dependencies" (#2585) @VasiliySoldatkin
* Add a dedicated section for Language Support in the issue template (#2592) @ManyTheFish

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @evpeople, @Mcdostone, @pavo-tusker, @phdavis1027, @ryanrussell, and @VasiliySoldatkin.
- [Milli](https://github.com/meilisearch/milli): @GraDKh.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @aFluffyHotdog, @matthias-wright, and @mosuka.
