# v0.30.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

This release removes index deployment downtime and adds new task management features. It also introduces new search parameters that facilitate the creation of numbered pagination interfaces.

Thanks to Hacktoberfest, tons of updates and bug fixes have been done by the fantastic Meilisearch community. You were more present than ever and words cannot make justice tojust  how grateful we are for your support. A big thank you from the whole Meilisearch team! ❤️

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
📖 Meilisearch's official documentation will be ready for the official v0.30.0 release. Meanwhile, work-in-progress documentation is available [here]().

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Ease search results navigation with pagination

You can now navigate through page selection when searching with Meilisearch using the API. This way, you will get the exact total number of pages and results Meilisearch has matched based on a query.

For this, use `page` and `hitsPerPage` as query parameter instead of `offset` and `limit`:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "shifu", "page": "2", "hitsPerPage": "10" }'
```

```json
{
    "hits": [
        // … 10 hits
    ],
    // …
    "page": 2,
    "hitsPerPage": 10,
    "totalHits": 2100,
    "totalPages": 210
}
```

Done in #2601 by @ManyTheFish.

## Cancel processing and enqueued tasks

Meilisearch now allows you to cancel `enqueued` or `processing` tasks through a new API route, `/tasks/cancel`. This can be useful when you need to interrupt a process that is taking too much time to be completed.

To cancel a task, select it by specifying one of the following query parameters: `uid`, `status`, `type`, or `indexUid`. You can also select a task by date using one of the following query parameters: `afterEnqueuedAt`, `afterStartedAt`, `afterFinishedAt`, `beforeEnqueuedAt`,`beforeStartedAt`, or `beforeFinishedAt`.

For example, to cancel tasks by `uid`:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/tasks/cancel?uid=1,2'
```

```json
{
  "taskUid": 1,
  "indexUid": "movies",
  "status": "enqueued",
  "type": "taskCancelation",
  "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z"
}
```

To cancel all enqueued tasks across all indexes in an instance:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/tasks/cancel?status=processing,enqueued'
```

<!-- The following line should be put in the official release changelogs only -->
Read more about [cancelling tasks]().

Done in #2763 by @irevoire, @Kerollmops and @loiclec.

## Delete old processed tasks

This release introduces a new `DELETE` endpoint to the `/tasks` route. You can use it to remove finished tasks (`succeeded`, `failed` or `canceled`) from Meilisearch's task history. This can be helpful in reducing the amount of occupied disk space.

To delete a finished task, select it by specifying one of the following query parameters: `uid`, `status`, `type`, or `indexUid`. You can also select a task by date using one of the following query parameters: `afterEnqueuedAt`, `afterStartedAt`, `afterFinishedAt`, `beforeEnqueuedAt`,`beforeStartedAt`, or `beforeFinishedAt`.

For example, to delete tasks by `uid`:

```bash
curl \
  -X DELETE 'http://localhost:7700/tasks?uid=1,2'
```

```json
{
  "taskUid": 3,
  "indexUid": null,
  "status": "enqueued",
  "type": "taskDeletion",
  "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z"
}
```

To delete all finished tasks in an instance:

```bash
curl \
  -X DELETE 'http://localhost:7700/tasks?status=failed,succeeded,canceled'
```

<!-- The following line should be put in the official release changelogs only -->
Read more about [deleting finished tasks]().

Done in #2763 by @irevoire, @Kerollmops, and @loiclec.

## Remove downtime: swap indexes

When doing important changes on a primary data store, you need them to be synchronized with Meilisearch. To avoid any downtime, Meilisearch now provides a seamless way to point to a new up-to-date index: swapping indexes.

To swap indexes, use the new `/swap-indexes` route:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/swap-indexes'\
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '[
      { "indexes": ["indexA", "indexB"] }
  ]'
```

```json
{
  "taskUid": 3,
  "indexUid": null,
  "status": "enqueued",
  "type": "indexSwap",
  "enqueuedAt": "2021-08-12T10:00:00.000000Z"
}
```

<!-- The following line should be put in the official release changelogs only -->
Read more about [swapping indexes]().

Done in #2763 by @irevoire, @Kerollmops, and @loiclec.

## Configuration file support

You can now use a configuration file to set [instance options](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/configuration/instance_options.html#all-instance-options).

By default, Meilisearch will search the working directory for a file named `./config.toml`.

You can use the `--config-file-path` option if you want to keep your configuration file in another directory:

```bash
meilisearch --config-file-path="./my-config.toml"
```

Example of configuration file:

```toml
env = "production"
master_key = "MY_MASTER_KEY"
schedule_snapshot = true
```

You can download a default configuration file from our repository:

```bash
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/main/config.toml > config.toml
```

<!-- The following line should be put in the official release changelogs only -->
Read more about [customizing Meilisearch with a configuration file]().

Done in #2745, #2928, #2804, #2841,  and #2961 by @mlemesle, @choznerol, @arriven, @LunarMarathon and @curquiza,

## Language improvements

TBD

## Other improvements

* Full support for compressed API requests (Gzip, Brotli, Zlib) (#2876) @mou
* Significant indexing speed improvements (#2763, meilisearch/milli#639, meilisearch/milli#619) @loiclec
* Provide Apple Silicon binaries (#2837) @jeertmans
* Add missing environment variables for dump and snapshot features (#2738) @gmourier
* Increase max concurrent readers from 126 to 1024 (#2830) @arriven
* Reduce the size of the Meilisearch binary: allow excluding specialized tokenizations when building binaries (#2773) @jirutka

# Behavior changes ⚠️

* Rename `receivedDocumentIds` into `matchedDocuments` in the task object when performing a [`delete-batch` action](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/documents.html#delete-documents-by-batch) (#2826) @Ugzuzg
* Change default bind address from `127.0.0.1` to `localhost`, making the default address available in IPv4 and IPv6 (#2861) @Fall1ngStar
* Return a new error when using `/keys` without any master key set: `missing_master_key` instead of `invalid_api_key` (#2922) @vishalsodani

# Fixes 🐞

* Improve error message when adding documents: replace a meaningless serde message (#2819) @onyxcherry
* Fix `dumpCreation` tasks bug (#2890) @washbin
* Don't panic when the error length is slightly over 100 (#2727) @onyxcherry
* Fix phrase search bug (meilisearch/milli#639 and meilisearch/milli#647) @loiclec
* Fix filtering bug (meilisearch/milli#619) @loiclec
* Fix `facetDistribution` when setting `maxFacetPerValue` if only a few documents are returned (meilisearch/milli#619) @loiclec

# Misc

* GitHub CIs and tests
  * Add dry run for publishing binaries: check if the compilation works (#2726 and #2733) @curquiza
  * Add CI workflow to update the Meilisearch version in Cargo.toml files (#2741 and #2744) @curquiza
  * Add CI manifest to automate some steps when closing/creating a Milestone (#2739, #2852, #2853) @curquiza
  * Improve Docker CI for cloud team (#2790, #2896) @curquiza
  * Update checkout v2 to v3 in CI manifests and use a unique GitHub PAT (#2740) @curquiza
  * Uncomment cache steps in Github CI (#2868) @AM1TB
  * Skip dashboard test if the mini-dashboard feature is disabled (#2814) @jirutka
* Dependencies
  * Upgrade dependencies (#2847) @loiclec
  * Upgrade clap to 4.0 (#2851) @choznerol
  * Upgrade to alpine 3.16 in Dockerfile (#2827) @nontw
* Documentation
  * Update internal CLI documentation (#2839) @jeertmans
  * Improve issue template to avoid support questions in Meilisearch issues (#2772) @curquiza
  * Update Hacktoberfest section in CONTRIBUTING.md (#2817, #2794, #2793) @meili-bot @curquiza @Luna-meili
  * Fix typos (#2789) @kianmeng
  * Fix broken link in CONTRIBUTING.md (#2845) @AnirudhDaya
* Delete v1.rs since it is not included in project (#2834) @Himanshu664
* Download-latest script: refactoring (#2913) @nfsec
* Make Clippy happy (#2831) @Kerollmops

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @AM1TB, @AnirudhDaya, @arriven, @choznerol, @Fall1ngStar, @Himanshu664, @jeertmans, @jirutka, @kianmeng, @LunarMarathon, @mlemesle, @mou, @nfsec, @nontw, @onyxcherry, @Ugzuzg, vishalsodani and @washbin.
- [Milli](https://github.com/meilisearch/milli): @anirudhRowjee, @ehiggs, @jeertmans, @msvaljek, @vincent-herlemont, and @vishalsodani.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): TBD.
