# v1.12.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
> [!WARNING]
> Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.12 introduces significant indexing speed improvements, almost halving the time required to index large datasets. This release also introduces new settings to customize and potentially further increase indexing speed.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features. Consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and updates 🔥

## Improve indexing speed

Indexing time for huge dataset import (multiple millions of documents) is divided by two!

TBD: give more data and metrics about improvements

Done by @dureuill, @ManyTheFish, and @Kerollmops in #4900.

## New index settings: use `facetSearch` and `prefixSearch` to improve indexing speed

v1.12 introduces two new index settings: `facetSearch` and `prefixSearch`.

Both settings allow you to skip parts of the indexing process. This leads to significant improvements to indexing speed, but may negatively impact search experience in some use cases.

Done by @ManyTheFish in #5091

### `facetSearch`

Use this setting to toggle [facet search](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/filtering_and_sorting/search_with_facet_filters#searching-facet-values):

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/books/settings/facet-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary 'true'
```

The default value for `facetSearch` is `true`. When set to `false`, this setting disables facet search for all filterable attributes in an index.

### `prefixSearch`

Use this setting to configure the ability to [search a word by prefix](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/engine/prefix) on an index:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/books/settings/prefix-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary 'disabled'
```

`prefixSearch` accepts one of the following values:

- `"indexingTime"`: enables prefix processing during indexing. This is the default Meilisearch behavior
- `"disabled"`: deactivates prefix search completely


Disabling prefix search means the query `he` will no longer match the word `hello`. This may significantly impact search result relevancy, but speeds up the indexing process.

## New API route: `/batches`

The new `/batches` endpoint allow you to query information about task batches.

`GET` `/batches` returns a list of batch objects:

```sh
curl  -X GET 'http://localhost:7700/batches'
```

This endpoint accepts the same parameters as `GET` `/tasks` route, allowing you to narrow down which batches you want to see.

You may also query `GET` `/batches/:uid` to retrieve information about a single batch object:

```sh
curl  -X GET 'http://localhost:7700/batches/BATCH_UID'
```

`/batches/:uid` does not accept any parameters.

Batch objects contain the following fields:

```json5
// TBD: an example of batch object
```

Additionally, task objects now include a new field, `batchUid`. Use this field together with `/batches/:uid` to retrieve data on a specific batch.

```json5
// TBD: an example of the new `task` object, one `progress` in implemented.
```

Done by @irevoire in #5060, #5070, #5080

## Other improvements

* New query parameter for `GET` `/tasks`: `reverse`. If `reverse` is set to `true`, tasks will be returned in reversed order, from oldest to newest tasks. Done by @irevoire in #5048
* Phrase searches with`showMatchesPosition` set to `true` give a single location for the whole phrase @flevi29 in #4928
* Adds new metrics to prometheus by @PedroTurik in #5044
* When a query finds matching terms in document fields with array values,  Meilisearch now includes an `indices` field to `_matchesPosition` specifying which array elements contain the matches by @LukasKalbertodt in #5005
* ⚠️ Breaking `vectorStore` change: field distribution no longer contains `_vectors`. Its value used to be incorrect, and there is no current use case for the fixed, most likely empty, value. Done as part of #4900

# Fixes 🐞

* Return appropriate error when primary key is greater than 512 bytes, by @flevi29 in #4930
* Fix issue where numbers were segmented in different ways depending on tokenizer, by @dqkqd in https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/pull/311
* Fix pagination when embedding fails by @dureuill in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/5063
* Fix issue causing Meilisearch to ignore stop words in some cases by @ManyTheFish in #5062
* Fix phrase search with `attributesToSearchOn` in #5062 by @ManyTheFish
# Misc

* Dependencies updates
  * Update benchmarks to match the new crates subfolder by @Kerollmops in #5021
  * Fix the benchmarks by @irevoire in #5037
  * Bump Swatinem/rust-cache from 2.7.1 to 2.7.5 in #5030
  * Update charabia v0.9.2 by @ManyTheFish in #5098
* CIs and tests
  * Improve performance of `delete_index.rs` by @DerTimonius in #4963
  * Improve performance of `create_index.rs` by @DerTimonius in #4962
  * Improve performance of `get_documents.rs` by @PedroTurik in #5025
  * Improve performance of `formatted.rs` by @PedroTurik in #5043
  * Fix the path used in the flaky tests CI by @Kerollmops in #5049
* Misc
  * Rollback the Meilisearch Kawaii logo by @Kerollmops in #5017
  * Add image source label to Dockerfile by @wuast94 in #4990
  * Hide code complexity into a subfolder by @Kerollmops in #5016
  * Internal tool: implement offline upgrade from v1.10 to v1.11 by @irevoire in #5034
  * Meilisearch is now able to retrieve Katakana words from a Hiragana query by @tats-u in https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/pull/312
  * Improve error handling when writing into LMDB by @Kerollmops in https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/5089

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @DerTimonius, @flevi29, @LukasKalbertodt, @PedroTurik, @wuast94
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @dqkqd @tats-u
