# v1.10.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
> [!WARNING]
> Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

With Meilisearch v1.10 we keep innovating by introducing the really demanded federated search! You can know apply multi-search requests and get one single list of results 🎉. This version also includes a setting to define your index languages (even if multiple languages are in your documents!), and new experimental features like the `CONTAINS` operator and the ability to update a subset of your dataset by using a simple function.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features. Consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and updates 🔥

## Federated search

By using the `POST /multi-search` endpoint, you can now return a **single** search result object, whose list of `hits` is built by merging the hits coming from all the queries in descending ranking score order.

```bash
curl \
 -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
  "federation": {
    "offset": 5,
    "limit": 10,
 }
  "queries": [
 {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "movies"
 },
 {
      "q": "Batman",
      "indexUid": "comics"
 }
 ]
}'
```
Response:

```json5
{
  "hits": [
    {
      "id": 42,
      "title": "Batman returns",
      "overview": "..",
      "_federation": {
        "indexUid": "movies",
        "queriesPosition": 0
      }
    },
    {
      "comicsId": "batman-killing-joke",
      "description": "..",
      "title": "Batman: the killing joke",
      "_federation": {
        "indexUid": "comics",
        "queriesPosition": 1
      }
    },
    ...
 ],
  processingTimeMs: 0,
  limit: 20,
  offset: 0,
  estimatedTotalHits: 2,
  semanticHitCount: 0,
}
```

If `federation` is empty (`{}`) default values of `offset` and `limit` are used, so respectively 0 and 20.
If `federation` is null or missing, a classic multi-search will be applied, so a list of search result objects for each index will be returned.

To customize the relevancy and the weight applied to each index in the search result, use the `federationOptions` parameter in your request:

```bash
curl \
 -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
 -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
  "federation": {},
  "queries": [
    {
      "q": "apple red",
      "indexUid": "fruits",
      "filter": "BOOSTED = true",
      "_showRankingScore": true,
      "federationOptions": {
        "weight": 3.0
      }
    },
    {
      "q": "apple red",
      "indexUid": "fruits",
      "_showRankingScore": true,
    }
  ]
}'
```

`weight` must be positive (>=0)
- if < 1.0, the hits from this query are less likely to appear in the results.
- if > 1.0, the hits from this query are more likely to appear in the results.
- if missing, the default value is applied (1.0)

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
📖 More information about the merge algorithm on the [documentation](TBD).

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
📖 More information about the merge algorithm on the [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-10-federated-search-698dfe36ab6b4668b044f735fb40f0b2).

Done by @dureuill in #4769.

## Experimental: `CONTAINS` filter operator

Enabling the experimental feature will make a new `CONTAINS` operator available while filtering on strings.
This is similar to the SQL `LIKE` operator used with `%`.

Activate the experimental feature:

```bash
curl \
 -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
    "containsFilter": true
 }'
```
Use the newly introduced `CONTAINS` operator:

```bash
curl \
 -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
      "q": "super hero",
      "filter": "synopsis NOT CONTAINS spider"
 }'
```

🗣️ This is an experimental feature, and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/763).

Done by @irevoire in #4804.

## Languages settings

You can now set up the language of your index in your settings and during the search. This will prevent users from using alternative Meilisearch images we were separately created until now (like for [Swedish](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/4604) and [Japanese](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/3882))

Done by @ManyTheFish in #4819.

### Index settings

Use the newly introduced `localizedAttributes` setting (here is an example of handling multi-language documents):

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "localizedAttributes": [
      {"locales": ["jpn"], "attributePatterns": ["*_ja"]},
      {"locales": ["eng"], "attributePatterns": ["*_en"]},
      {"locales": ["cmn"], "attributePatterns": ["*_zh"]},
      {"locales": ["fra", "ita"], "attributePatterns": ["latin.*"]},
      {"locales": [], "attributePatterns": ["*"]}
    ]
}'
```

`locales` is a list of language codes to assign to a pattern, the supported codes are: `epo`, `eng`, `rus`, `cmn`, `spa`, `por`, `ita`, `ben`, `fra`, `deu`, `ukr`, `kat`, `ara`, `hin`, `jpn`, `heb`, `yid`, `pol`, `amh`, `jav`, `kor`, `nob`, `dan`, `swe`, `fin`, `tur`, `nld`, `hun`, `ces`, `ell`, `bul`, `bel`, `mar`, `kan`, `ron`, `slv`, `hrv`, `srp`, `mkd`, `lit`, `lav`, `est`, `tam`, `vie`, `urd`, `tha`, `guj`, `uzb`, `pan`, `aze`, `ind`, `tel`, `pes`, `mal`, `ori`, `mya`, `nep`, `sin`, `khm`, `tuk`, `aka`, `zul`, `sna`, `afr`, `lat`, `slk`, `cat`, `tgl`, `hye`.

`attributePattern` is a pattern that can start or end with a `*` to match one or several attributes.

`"locales": [], "attributePatterns": ["*"]` means the is the default rule.

Notes:
- if an attribute matches several rules, only the first rule in the list will be applied
- if the locales list is empty, then Meilisearch is allowed to auto-detect any language in the matching attributes
- These rules are applied to the `searchableAttributes`, the `filterableAttributes`, and the `sortableAttributes`.

### At search time

The search route accepts a new parameter, `locales` allowing the end-user to define the language used in the current query:

```bash
curl \
 -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
  "q": "進撃の巨人",
  "locales": ["jpn"]
}'
```

The `locales` parameter overrides eventual `locales` in the index settings.

## Experimental: edit documents by using a function

You can edit documents by executing a [Rhai function](https://rhai.rs/) on all the documents of your database or a subset of them that you can select by a Meilisearch filter.

Activate the experimental feature:

```bash
curl \
 -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
 --data-binary '{
    "editDocumentsByFunction": true
 }'
```

By indexing this [movies dataset](https://www.meilisearch.com/movies.json), you can run the following Rhai function on all of them. This function will uppercase the titles of the movies with an `id` > 3000 and add sparkles around it. Rhai templating syntax is applied here:

```bash
curl http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/documents/edit \
 -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '{
 "filter": "id > 3000",
 "function": "doc.title = `✨ ${doc.title.to_upper()} ✨`"
 }'
```

📖 More information [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/Update-Documents-by-Function-0cff8fea7655436592e7c8a6de932062).

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/762).

Done by @Kerollmops in #4626.

## Experimental AI-powered search: quality of life improvements

For the purpose of future stabilization of the feature, we are applying changes and quality-of-life improvements.

Done by @dureuill in #4801, #4815, #4818, #4822.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes - changing the parameters of the REST API

The old parameters of the REST API are too numerous and confusing.

Removed parameters: `query` , `inputField`, `inputType`, `pathToEmbeddings` and `embeddingObject`.
Replaced by
- `request` : A JSON value that represents the request made by Meilisearch to the remote embedder. The text to embed must be replaced by the placeholder value `“{{text}}”`.
- `response`: A JSON value that represents a fragment of the response made by the remote embedder to Meilisearch. The embedding must be replaced by the placeholder value `"{{embedding}}"`.

Before:

```json5
// v1.9 (old) version
{
  "source": "rest",
  "url": "https://localhost:10006",
  "query": {
    "model": "minillm",
 },
  "inputField": ["prompt"],
  "inputType": "text",
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
}
```

```json5
// v1.10 (new) version
{
  "source": "rest",
  "url": "https://localhost:10006",
  "request": {
    "model": "minillm",
    "prompt": "{{text}}"
 },
  "response": {
    "embedding": "{{embedding}}"
 }
}
```
> [!CAUTION]
> This is a breaking change to the configuration of REST embedders.
> Importing a dump containing a REST embedder configuration will fail in v1.10 with an error: "Error: unknown field `query`, expected one of `source`, `model`, `revision`, `apiKey`, `dimensions`, `documentTemplate`, `url`, `request`, `response`, `distribution` at line 1 column 752".

Upgrade procedure (Cloud):

1. Remove any embedder with source "rest"
2. Follow the usual steps described [here in the documentation](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating#updating-meilisearch-cloud)

Upgrade procedure (Open-source users):

1. Remove any embedder with source "rest"
2. Follow the usual steps described [here in the documentation](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/update_and_migration/updating#updating-a-self-hosted-meilisearch-instance)

### Add custom headers to REST embedders

When the `source` of an embedder is set to `rest`, `headers` is now available as an optional parameter.

Previously, the parameter did not exist. Trying to use the `headers` parameter for any other `source` is an `invalid_settings_embedder` error.

Embedding requests sent from Meilisearch to a remote REST embedder always contain two headers:

- `Authorization: Bearer <apiKey>` (only if `apiKey` was provided)
- `Content-Type: application/json`

When provided, `headers` should be a JSON object whose keys represent the name of additional headers to send in requests, and the values represent the value of these additional headers.

If `headers` is missing or `null` for a `rest` embedder, only `Authorization` and `Content-Type` are sent, as described above.

If `headers` contains `Authorization` and `Content-Type`, the declared values will override the ones that are sent by default.

### Other quality-of-life improvements

📖 More details [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-10-AI-search-changes-737c9d7d010d4dd685582bf5dab579e2)

* Add `url` parameter to the OpenAI embedder. `url` should be an URL to the embedding endpoint (including the v1/embeddingspart) from OpenAI. If `url` is missing or `null` for an `openAi` embedder, the default OpenAI embedding route will be used (https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings).
* `dimensions` is now available as an optional parameter for `ollama` embedders. Previously it was only available for rest, `openAi` and `userProvided` embedders.
* Previously `_vectors.embedder` was omitted for documents without at least one embedding for `embedder`. This was inconsistent and prevented the user from checking the value of `regenerate`.
* When a request to a REST embedder fails, the duration of the exponential backoff is now randomized up to twice its base duration
* Truncate rather than embed by chunk when OpenAI embeddings are bigger than the max number of tokens
* Improve error message when indexing documents and embeddings are missing for a user-provided embedder
* Improve error message when a model configuration cannot be loaded and its "architectures" field does not contain "BertModel"

## ⚠️ Important change regarding the minimal Ubuntu version compatible with Meilisearch

Because the GitHub Actions runner now enforces the usage of a Node version that is not compatible with Ubuntu 18.04 anymore, we had to upgrade the minimal Ubuntu version compatible with Meilisearch. Indeed, we use these GitHub actions to build and provide our binaries.

Now, Meilisearch is only compatible with Ubuntu 20.04 and later and not with Ubuntu 18.4 anymore.

Done by @curquiza in #4783.

## Other improvements

* Search speed optimization: implement intersection at the end of the search pipeline by @Kerollmops in #4717
* Indexing speed optimization: stop opening indexes to only check if they exist by @Karribalu in #4787
* Improve tenant token error messages by @irevoire in #4724
* Add null byte as hard context separator by @LukasKalbertodt in meilisearch/charabia#295
* Adds all [math symbols](https://www.compart.com/en/unicode/category/Sm) to the default separator list by @phillitrOSU in meilisearch/charabia#301
* Errors emitted at the main level of the Meilisearch binary are now logged with level `ERROR` by @dureuill in #4835

# Fixes 🐞

* Fix invalid primary key for big numbers @JWSong in #4725
* Fix wrong HTTP status and confusing error message on wrong payload by @Karribalu in #4716
* Fix the missing geo distance when one or both of the lat/lng are string by @irevoire in #4731

# Misc

* Dependencies updates
  * Update most of the dependencies by @irevoire in #4786
  * Update yaup by @irevoire in #4703
  * Bump docker/build-push-action from 5 to 6 by @dependabot in #4758
  * Bump zerovec from 0.10.1 to 0.10.4 by @dependabot in #4785
  * Update rustls as much as possible by @irevoire in #4806
* CIs and tests
  * Fix CI with Rust v1.79 by @dureuill in #4723
  * Fix flaky test by @irevoire in #4730
  * Specify the rust toolchain by @irevoire in #4706
  * Add `vX` Docker tag when publishing Docker image by @curquiza in #4761
  * Add search benchmarks by @dureuill in #4762
  * Add tests on the rest embedder by @irevoire and @dureuill in #4755
* Documentation
  * Add june 11th webinar banner by @Strift in #4691
  * Revert "Add june 11th webinar banner" by @curquiza in #4705
  * Update the README to link more demos by @Kerollmops in #4711
  * Update README.md by @Strift in #4721
  * Change the Meilisearch logo to the kawaii version by @Kerollmops in #4778
* Misc
  * New workload to ignore the initial compression phase by @Kerollmops in #4773
  * Rename the sortable into the filterable movies workload by @Kerollmops in #4774
  * Correct apk usages in Dockerfile by @PeterDaveHello in #4781
  * Make milli use edition 2021 by @hanbings in #4770
  * Allow `MEILI_NO_VERGEN` env var to skip vergen by @dureuill in #4812

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @Karribalu, @hanbings, @junhochoi, @JWSong, @PeterDaveHello.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @LukasKalbertodt, @phillitrOSU.
