# v1.1.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.1.0 introduces the much-requested multi-index search! You can now use one single HTTP request to perform different searches in multiple indexes.

Additional new features include: `geoBoundingBox` geosearch filter, addition of a `facetStats` objects to queries using the `facets` search parameters, and customization of CSV separators.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 Most integrations (SDKs, clients, libraries) will be compatible with this version within four hours of the release. Sometimes this can take up to 48 hours, depending on the issues we encounter during the release.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
Here is the exhaustive list of integrations **not immediately compatible** with v1.1.0:
TBD

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
📖 Meilisearch's official documentation will be ready for the official v1.1.0 release. Meanwhile, work-in-progress documentation is available [here]().

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Multi-index search: allow multiple searches in a single request

Perform searches in multiple indexes in a single HTTP request using the new `/multi-search` endpoint:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/multi-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'
  --data-binary '{
    "queries": [
       {
         "indexUid": "products",
         "q": "Nike",
         "limit": 1
       },
      {
         "indexUid": "brands",
         "q": "Nike",
         "limit": 1
      }
    ]
  }'
```

When you use the multi-index search endpoint, Meilisearch returns an array of results for each queried index:

```json
{
	"results": [
	  {
	    "indexUid": "products",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 1,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 17
	  },
	  {
	    "indexUid": "brands",
	    "hits": [...],
	    "query": "Nike",
	    "processingTimeMs": 0,
	    "limit": 1,
	    "offset": 0,
	    "estimatedTotalHits": 7
	  }
	]
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #3417

## Introduce facet stats

When using the `facets` parameter during a search, statistics about the distributed facets are displayed in a `facetStats` object. This object will contain the minimum (`min`) and the maximum (`max`) of each numerical facet corersponding to search query.

Nothing needs to be activated, this information are available by default when requiring facets during a search (with the `facets` parameter).

Done by @dureuill in #3423.

## Geo-search improvements: introcdution of `geoBoundingBox`

When doing a filter (with the `filter` parameter) during the search, you can now use the `geoBoundingBox`: `_geoBoundingBox([lat, lng], [lat, lng])`, where the first argument is the top left corner, and the second one the bottom right corner.

Done by @gmourier and @irevoire in #3405 and #3529.

## Lifting the limits on index size and count

Before v1.0, the maximum size of an index on disk was limited according to the `--max-index-size` CLI parameter, and the number of indexes that could be accessed by one Meilisearch process would depend on this value (typically, about 1000 indexes with the default setting of 100GiB for `--max-index-size`).

v1.0 removed `--max-index-size` and fixed the maximum size of indexes to 500GiB, with about 200 concurrent indexes accessible to a Meilisearch process.

The removal of `--max-index-size` was made in preparation for this release: you can now use an unlimited number of indexes, whose maximum size will be only dictated by the memory address space devoted to a single process by the OS. The limit is at about 80TiB under Linux, you might run out of disk space before reaching it!

Done by @dureuill in #3319, #3331 and #3544.

## Experimental feature: monitore the Meilisearch usage by using Prometheus

This release introduces an experimental feature to follow your metrics by using Prometheus.

When launching Meilisearch, use the following flag:

```bash
meilisearch --experimental-enable-metrics
```

The `/metrics` route will be available and compatible with Prometheus.

🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need you to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3518).

⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between 2 versions of Meilisearch. Be careful if using it in production.

Done by @irevoire, @dureuill, and @james-2001 in #3496, #3524, #3538 and #3543.

## Improve language support

* Enhance Greek support by normalizing diacritics and final sigma
* Enhance Arabic support by ignoring Tatweel
* Enhance language detection: the language is now detected when indexing to prevent from wrong language detections during the search

Done in #3347 and on the [Charabia side](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.1) by @choznerol, @cymruu, @james-2001 and @ManyTheFish.

## Other improvements

* Allow using wildcards (`*`) at the end of index names when creating API keys or tenant tokens (#3174) @Kerollmops & @akhildevelops
* Customize the CSV delimiter (default: `,`) by using the `csvDelimiter` parameter during the document addition and update (#3505, #3534) @MixusMinimax and @irevoire
* Improve error messages: introduction of "did you mean ...?" suggestions when doing typos on a Meilisearch parameter (#3492) @irevoire
* Batch together addition and deletion tasks to speed up indextation. You don't have to do anything to activate it, just enjoy! (#3470) @irevoire
* Accept `null` as a valid `_geo` field when importing or updating documents (#3515) @irevoire
* Reduce crate size (from ~200MB to ~50MB) by compressing dictionaries (#3347) @ManyTheFish
<!-- The following line should NOT be put in RC0 release changelogs because not present yet -->
* Cache the result of the indexes stats (#3541) @irevoire

# Fixes 🐞

* Enhance facet string normalization: `sortBy` is now correct for accented characters (#3372) @ManyTheFish
* Fix web interface issues: bump version of search preview to [v0.2.6](https://github.com/meilisearch/mini-dashboard/releases/tag/v0.2.6) (#3514) @bidoubiwa
* Unify "Bad latitude" and "Bad longitude" errors (#3479) @cymruu
* Prevent from "Cannot allocate memory" errors when creating a lot of indexes (#3331) @dureuill
* Fix Japanese support (see [the related issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2403)) thanks to the new language detection (#3347) @ManyTheFish

# Misc

The following changes do not impact user experience.

* GitHub CIs & test suite
  * Create a preview environment for every PR using Uffizzi (#3040 and #3482) @waveywaves
  * Add tests with rust nightly in CI (#3495) @ztkmkoo
  * Add `--all` to test CI (#3403) @curquiza
  * Remove cache from test CI to prevent Windows CI failures (#3422) @curquiza
  * Pin Rust version in Clippy job (#3451) @curquiza
  * Update comments in version bump CI (#3519) @curquiza
  * Fix cargo flaky (#3348) @irevoire
  * Make clippy happy for Rust 1.67, allow `uninlined_format_args` (#3434) @dureuill
* Documentation
  * Fixup `dumps-destination` into `dump-directory` section header in help link (#3199) @dureuill
  * Add prototype guide to CONTRIBUTING.md (#3433) @curquiza
  * Rework technical information in the README (#3399) @curquiza
  * Add image hyperlink to the README.md (#3420) @gregsadetsky
  * Update migration link to the docs (#3539) @curquiza
* Internal changes
  * Add support for running milli on iOS and macOS when using App Sandbox by activating Cargo feature for LMDB's POSIX semaphores (#3407) @GregoryConrad
  * Extract creation and last updated timestamp for v3 dump (#3343) @FrancisMurillo
  * Gitignore VScode & Jetbrains IDE folders (#3480) @AymanHamdoun
  * Import the milli repository (#3346) @Kerollmops
  * Identify builds git tagged with `prototype-...` in CLI and analytics (#3467) @dureuill
  * Use the workspace inheritance: the Meilisearch version is now present in `Cargo.toml` at the root of the repository (#3499) @irevoire
* Dependencies: bump libgit2-sys and tokio (#3409 and #3456)

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @akhildevelops, @AymanHamdoun, @cymruu, @FrancisMurillom @GregoryConrad, @gregsadetsky, @james-2001, @MixusMinimax, @waveywaves, and @ztkmkoo.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @choznerol, @cymruu, and @james-2001.
