# v1.2.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.2.0 improve search relevancy and performance but also introduces new filter operators like `IS NULL` and `IS EMPTY`!

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs, and the link should be added as soon as possible during the pre-release -->
📖 Meilisearch's official documentation will be ready for the official v1.2.0 release. Meanwhile, work-in-progress documentation is available [here]().

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Delete documents by filter

Expose a new route to delete documents by filters.
As always, the fields you're filtering on must be set as [filterable](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/settings#update-filterable-attributes).

The new route is located under `/indexes/:uid/documents/delete` and must be called with an HTTP `POST` request.
Its payload is a single JSON object containing the filter:
```json
{
  "filter": ["doggo = 'bernese mountain'", "face = cute"]
}
```

Here is an example of usage using curl:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/dogs/documents/delete \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "filter": "doggo = golden" }'
```

As always, this returns a sum up of the task:
```json
{
  "taskUid": 242,
  "indexUid": "dogs",
  "status": "enqueued",
  "type": "documentDeletion",
  "enqueuedAt": "2023-05-03T11:01:58.721841Z"
}
```

Which you can then query in the task queue. As you can see, this new task
is still considered as a `documentsDeletion` but a new field appeared in its details!
It now contains the original filter.
```json
{
  "uid": 242,
  "indexUid": "dogs",
  "status": "succeeded",
  "type": "documentDeletion",
  "canceledBy": null,
  "details": {
    "providedIds": 0,
    "deletedDocuments": 2,
    "originalFilter": "\"doggo = golden\""
  },
  "error": null,
  "duration": "PT0.005040S",
  "enqueuedAt": "2023-05-03T11:01:58.721841Z",
  "startedAt": "2023-05-03T11:01:58.722442Z",
  "finishedAt": "2023-05-03T11:01:58.727482Z"
}
```

Done by @dureuill and @irevoire in #3550.

## Get documents by filter

To help you with the document deletion by filters, we also decided to let you get documents by filters.
This means the `GET` `/indexes/:uid/documents` route now also supports receiving a filter.

And since many of you had really large filters to send that would definitely not fit in an URL, we also crafted a new route that you can access
with the HTTP `POST` verb with the same parameter. It's located under `/indexes/:uid/documents/fetch` and
can be accessed with the `limit`, `offset`, `fields`, and `filter` parameters.

Here is an example of usage:
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:7700/indexes/dogs/documents/fetch \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "limit": 1, "filter": "doggo = bernese" }'
```

Done by @dureuill and @irevoire in #3570.

## New filter operators: `IS EMPTY` and `IS NULL`

During the search, you can use [filtering](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/search#filter) and retrieve documents containing `null` or empty fields.

For example with the following set of documents:

```json
[{
    "id": 0,
    "color": []
},
{
    "id": 1,
    "color": null
},
{
    "id": 2,
    "color": ""
},
{
    "id": 3,
    "color": {}
},
{
    "id": 4
}]
```

The filter `color IS EMPTY` selects the document ids `0`, `2` and `3` while the filter `color IS NOT EMPTY` or `NOT color IS EMPTY` selects the document ids `1` and `4`.

The filter `color IS NULL` selects the document ids `1` while the filter `color IS NOT NULL` or `NOT color IS NULL` selects the document ids `0`, `2`, `3` and `4`.

Done by @Kerollmops in #3571.

## Improve relevancy and search performance

- The fastest 75 percent of queries now consistently answer below 50ms on our test setup (TBC on the cloud).
- The complexity of a search query is now limited, in order to limit CPU time and RAM consumption. In more details:
  - The number of typo considered for a single term is now limited to 150 for 1 typo, 50 for 2 typos. Similarly, the number of considered (single word or multi word) synonyms is limited to 50, the total number of words for all synonyms of a term is limited to 100.
  - The number of words considered in a query is now limited to 1000. The number of terms (words not inside a phrase, and individual phrases) was and is still limited to 10, so this change only impacts queries containing very long phrases.
- Solves some performance issues: https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3124, https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3378, https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2202, https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3123

### Performance of `geosort`

- Improved performance when there are only a few documents to geosort.
- Descending sort is now as performant as ascending sort.

### Relevancy improvements

- Synonyms are no longer considered as exact matches by the `exactness` ranking rule. This change is due to the goal of the `exactness` ranking rule of boosting the documents that contain the query exactly as typed by the user. Other ranking rules will still consider synonyms. Solves https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3410
- `Attributes`, `Exactness`, `typo` and `proximity` ranking rules now imply `words` if `words` was not already specified before them. This change was made because the behavior of applying these ranking rules before or without `words` was unintuitive and could hurt relevancy.
- Split words are now looked for for digrams. This means that the query `whit ehorse` may now match documents containing `white horse`, which improves the relevancy of typo tolerance.
- ngrams and split words are now disadvantaged in comparison to the exact word in the `typo` ranking rule.
- The "iterative" version of ranking rules are now removed (https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3356). The iterative version of algorithms would be applied depending on internal factors and would sometimes differ greatly in relevancy from the base ranking rule, leading to inconsistent relevancy.
- Exactness will not prioritize documents containing exact words which were previously removed by the `words` ranking rule anymore. For example, when using the query `Batman: the dark knight rises` with the default term matching strategy (`last`), documents with a title starting with `Batman: the dark knight` will now be returned before documents that contain additional terms like `Batman: the dark knight crashes`, which improves relevancy. Congratulations if you read so far. Similarly, with the query: `Batman the supercalifragilisticexpialidocious knight rises`. Then the `Last` term matching strategy will reduce the query to `Batman the`. Exactness will then only prioritise documents that contain the exact words `Batman` and `the` but not `supercalifragilisticexpialidocious`, `knight`, or `rises`.

### Unblocking features

v1.2 brings a massive refactor of the search engine that unblocks the implementation of user-requested features in the future:

- Separating the `attribute` and `position` ranking rules: https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3222
- Limiting the search to specific attributes (`words in [title, genres]`): https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/595
- More term matching strategies: https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3424
- Setting ranking rule at search time: https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/3425
- Scoring search results: https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/594

Done by @loiclec, @dureuill, @ManyTheFish, @Kerollmops and @irevoire in #3542.

## Task auto-deletion

Definite fix for #3622.

We've added a limit (1M) to the maximum number of tasks the task queue can hold.
Once the task queue reaches this limit (1M of tasks are in the task queue, whatever their status is), a task deletion will be scheduled and try to delete the oldest 100k tasks.
If the 100k tasks can't be deleted due to some of them being unfinished, we will delete as many tasks as possible.
If the limit is reached, you’ll still be able to register new tasks. The engine will only stop you from adding new tasks once the hard limit of 10GiB of tasks is reached (that’s between 5M and 15M of tasks depending on your workflow).

Technically, we won't enqueue a task unless we can guarantee it will be processed right away.
If the automated task deletion doesn’t delete anything, we won't enqueue any more tasks and log a warning for the user to know that the engine is not working properly.

Done by @irevoire in #3693.

## Language support improvements

* Split camelCase in Latin segmenter
* Improve Arabic: normalizer and segmentation

Done by @ManyTheFish, @akeamc, @DrAliRagab, @goodhoko, and @mosuka in #3702 and in [Charabia v0.7.2](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.2)

## Other improvements

* Add the support of boolean for CSV documents (#3576) @irevoire
* Improve geo sort errors during sorting and filtering (#3638 and #3631) @cymruu

# Fixes 🐞

* Improve the `GET /health` route by ensuring the internal DB is not down (#3647) @irevoire
* Handle single quotation mark (`’`) and apostrophe (`'`) the same way (#3702) @ManyTheFish

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump the Meilisearch dependencies (#3661) @Kerollmops
  * Security: bump h2 from 0.3.15 to 0.3.17 (#3674)
  * Update clippy toolchain from v1.67 to v1.69 (#3695) @curquiza
  * Bump GitHub actions dependencies: #3554, #3551, #3552, #3553, #3633
* CIs and tests
  * Add scheduled test to Actions for all features (#3510) @jlucktay
  * Clean CI file names (#3567) @curquiza
  * Enable cache again in test suite CI (#3587) @curquiza
  * Remove CLI changes for clippy (#3464) @dureuill
  * Improve docker cache in CIs (#3566) @inductor
  * Remove Uffizzi because not used by the team (#3694) @curquiza
* Documentation
  * Add a newline after the meilisearch version in the issue template (#3636) @bidoubiwa
  * Add sprint issue to the template issues (#3643) @curquiza
  * Update the prototype section in CONTRIBUTING.md (#3649) @curquiza
  * Update README to reference new docs website (#3666) @guimachiavelli
* Misc
  * Milli scope: for a settings update, check to see if the primary key actually changes before erroring out (#3608) @GregoryConrad
  * Remove the unused snapshot files (#3696) @irevoire

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @cymruu, @GregoryConrad, @inductor, and @jlucktay.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @akeamc, @DrAliRagab, @goodhoko, and @mosuka.
