# v1.3.0 release changelogs

Meilisearch v1.3.0 introduces Meilisearch as a vector store, it introduces visible ranking score details and defining fields to search on at search time. It also now includes the ability to search within facet values and sort facet values by count.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Vector Store - Experimental
The release of v1.3.0 enables Meilisearch to serve as a vector store. This means Meilisearch now accepts multiple embeddings (semantic vectors) per document, stores them, and lets users retrieve the nearest documents using the `/search` or `/multi-search` routes.

This experimental feature can be enabled via the HTTP API using v1.3.0's new `/experimental-features` endpoint. If you are using [Meilisearch Cloud](https://www.meilisearch.com/pricing?utm_campaign=oss&utm_source=engine&utm_medium=meilisearch) this can be enabled immeadiately after upgrade.

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "vectorStore": true
  }'

```

### Sending Vectorized Documents

For the first iteration of this feature you must compute the vectors on your side before sending to Meilisearch. Vectors should be sent with the document itself using the `_vectors` field. Multiple vectors can be sent for a single document.

⚠️ Note the size of the vectors must be the same across all of your documents. If the sizes are inconsistent Meilisearch will show an error in your tasks.

```bash
curl -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' \
'localhost:7700/indexes/myvectors/documents' \
--data-binary '[
    { "id": 0, "_vectors": [0, 0.8, -0.2], "text": "Hello World" },
    { "id": 1, "_vectors": [1, -0.2, 0], "text": "Hello Doggy" },
    { "id": 2, "_vectors": [[0.5, 3, 1], [-0.2, 4, 6]], "text": "Hello People" }
]'
```

### Query Meilisearch using Vectors

You can query the documents with the nearest vector using the default `/search` route by sending the vector of your query via the `vector` field. Again, for the first iteration you must compute the vector query on your side before requesting from Meilisearch.

```bash
curl -X POST -H 'content-type: application/json' \
'localhost:7700/indexes/myvectors/search' \
--data-binary '{ "vector": [0, 1, 2] }'
```

### Similarity score
As part of v1.3.0 Meilisearch will return a similarity score as part of the documents retrieved. This score will be between 0 and 1 and viewed under the `_semanticScore` property. The higher the ranking score, the more similar the document.

```json
{
  "hits": [
    { "id": 0, "_vectors": [0, 0.8, -0.2], "text": "Hello World", "_semanticScore": 0.6754 },
    { "id": 1, "_vectors": [1, -0.2, 0], "text": "Hello Doggy", "_semanticScore": 0.7546 },
    { "id": 2, "_vectors": [[0.5, 3, 1], [-0.2, 4, 6]], "text": "Hello People", "_semanticScore": 0.78 }
  ],
  "query": "",
  "vector": [0, 1, 2],
  "processingTimeMs": 0,
  "limit": 20,
  "offset": 0,
  "estimatedTotalHits": 2
}
```


🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need your help to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/677).

⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between Meilisearch versions. Be careful if using it in production.

Done by @Kerollmops in #3825


## Display ranking scores at search

Meilisearch v1.3.0 introduces ranking scores per document via the `showRankingScore` search query parameter. 

```bash 
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "Batman Returns", "showRankingScore": true }'
```

Using this search query parameter means that each document will return with a `_rankingScore` property displaying a score between 0 and 1. The higher the ranking score, the more relevant the document.

```json 
"_rankingScore": 0.8575757575757575,
```

### Ranking score details - Experimental 

Additionally, as an experimental feature, you can view detailed scores per ranking rule for each document via the `showRankingScoreDetails` search query parameter. 

```bash 
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "Batman Returns", "showRankingScoreDetails": true }'
```

With this search query parameter in place each document will return with an `_rankingScoreDetails` JSON object. That object will contain a property and a score value for each ranking rule. 

```json 
"_rankingScoreDetails": {
                "words": {
                    "order": 0,
                    "matchingWords": 1,
                    "maxMatchingWords": 1,
                    "score": 1.0
                },
                "typo": {
                    "order": 1,
                    "typoCount": 0,
                    "maxTypoCount": 1,
                    "score": 1.0
                },
                "proximity": {
                    "order": 2,
                    "score": 1.0
                },
                "attribute": {
                    "order": 3,
                    "attributes_ranking_order": 0.8,
                    "attributes_query_word_order": 0.6363636363636364,
                    "score": 0.7272727272727273
                },
                "exactness": {
                    "order": 4,
                    "matchType": "noExactMatch",
                    "score": 0.3333333333333333
                }
            }
```

This experimental feature can be turned on via the HTTP API using v1.3.0's new `/experimental-features` endpoint. If you are using [Meilisearch Cloud](https://www.meilisearch.com/pricing?utm_campaign=oss&utm_source=engine&utm_medium=meilisearch) this can be enabled immeadiately after upgrade.
```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
--data-binary '{
    "scoreDetails": true
  }'

```

🗣️ Since this feature is experimental, we need your help to iterate on it! You are more than welcome to share your thoughts and your feedback on [this discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/674).

⚠️ The experimental feature API can break between Meilisearch versions. Be careful if using it in production.

Done by @dureuill in #3771

## Define fields to search on at search time

v1.3.0 introduces a new search parameter, `attributesToSearchOn`.

`attributesToSearchOn` is a search parameter accepting an array of strings indicating one or more document attributes. Queries using `attributesToSearchOn` will restrict the search to the indicated attributes. Note the chosen attributes must be part of the [searchable attributes](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/configuration/displayed_searchable_attributes#the-searchableattributes-list) in settings.

Given the following dataset:
```json
{
  "id": 0,
  "name": "Our Wives Under the Sea",
  "genre": ["horror", "scifi"],
  "synopsis": "A woman returns to her wife transformed after a deep-sea adventure."
},
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "A Strange and Stubborn Endurance",
  "genre": ["adventure"],
  "synopsis": "A man must overcome trauma and fight off a mysterious assassin."
}
```
And the following query:
```json
{
  "q": "adventure",
  "attributesToSearchOn": ["genre"]
}
```
Meilisearch will only return document 1.

Both documents contain the word adventure, but `"attributesToSearchOn": ["genre"]` instructs Meilisearch to only consider results found on the genre field.


Done by @ManyTheFish in (#3834)


## Search for facet values
Meilisearch v1.3.0 introduces a new endpoint  `POST /indexes/{index}/facet-search` that allows you to search for facet values. Only fields defined as `filterableAttributes` will be facet-searchable. Facet search supports [prefix search](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/advanced/prefix) and [typo tolerance](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/configuration/typo_tolerance).

```bash
 curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/facet-search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
--data-binary '{
    "facetName": "genres",
    "facetQuery": "a"
  }'

```

Done by @Kerollmops in (#3699)

## Sort facet values by count
By default, all facet values are sorted in ascending alphanumeric order. 
```json
"sortFacetValuesBy": {"*": "alpha"}
```

With the release of v1.3.0 you can now order by `count` using the `sortFacetValuesBy` property of the [`faceting` index settings](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/settings#faceting). This allows you to sort facet values in descending order by the number of documents containing that facet value.

It is possible to change this ordering for all facets using `*`:

```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings/faceting \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "sortFacetValuesBy": {"*": "count"}
  }'

```

Alternatively, it is possible to specify ordering per facet i.e. order the genre facet by count, for everything else apply alphanumeric ordering.

```bash
 curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings/faceting \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
--data-binary '{
    "sortFacetValuesBy": {"*": "alpha", "genre": 'count'}
  }'

```

Done by @Kerollmops in (#3612)

### Language support improvements

* Enhance Japanese words segmentation (#218) @mosuka
* Enhance Separator based segmentation (#215) @ManyTheFish 

Done by @ManyTheFish, @mosuka in [#] and in [Charabia v0.7.3](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.7.3)


### Other improvements
* Improve the metrics. Provides metrics on the task queue such as the number of queued tasks and the number of processing tasks. Adds the real database size used by Meilisearch. (#3789) @irevoire
* Add "meilisearch" prefix to last metrics that were missing it (#3861) @dureuill 
* Removes the `docid_word_positions` database, which was only used during deletion operations. In our tests this change reduced approximately 15% of the index size. It also fixes an issue around incorrect deletion of documents when using the disableOnAttributes typo setting.  (#3819, #3816) @loiclec
* Adds the new experimental features endpoint to enable/disable `scoreDetails` and `vectorStore` experimental features (#3850) @dureuill 
* Reduce deserialization time by using `RoaringBitmap::deserialize_unchecked_from` which reduces the number of checks (#3788) @Kerollmops 
* Re-enables automatically batching addition and deletion tasks together to speed up indexing (#3670) @irevoire 
* Fixes an issue where searching for words without `.` doesn't match any string in the index. ([#151](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/151), [#3778](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/discussions/3778))


# Fixes 🐞
  * Fix matching results returned by the `exactness` ranking rules when there are hard separators present (#3824) @dureuill 


# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump actions/setup-go from 3 to 4 (#3805)
  * Bump Swatinem/rust-cache from 2.2.1 to 2.4.0 (#3803)
  * Bump svenstaro/upload-release-action from 2.5.0 to 2.6.1 (#3804)


* CIs and tests
  * Add a cron test with disabled tokenization (with @roy9495) (#3779) @curquiza
  * Improve SDK CI to choose the Docker image (#3844, #3813, #3783) @curquiza
  * Fix error messages in `check-release.sh` (#3799) @vvv

* Documentation
  * Move comments above keys in config.toml (#3731) @jirutka 
  * Add more documentation to graph-based ranking rule algorithms (#3835) @loiclec
  * Fix some broken links (#3853) @0xflotus 

* Misc
  * Revert "Improve docker cache" (#3781) @curquiza 
  * Fix some typos (#3842) @cuishuang 

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @cuishuang, @jirutka, @vvv, @0xflotus 
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @mosuka, @vvv 

