# v1.4.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should NOT be put in the official release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.4 improves the search result relevancy by introducing three new settings: `nonSeparatorTokens`, `separatorTokens` and `dictionary`.

<!-- The following lines should ONLY be put in the official release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Customize text separators

Meilisearch word segmentation uses a list of characters to separate one word from another. The `nonSeparatorTokens` and `separatorTokens` index settings allow you to configure this to better fit your dataset.

Add a character to the `separator-tokens` list to use it as a word separator:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["&sect;", "&sep"]'
```

Add a character to the `non-separator-tokens` list when you don't want Meilisearch to use it to separate words:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/non-separator-tokens' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["@", "#", "&"]'
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Load user-defined dictionaries

Meilisearch word segmentation also relies on language-based dictionaries to segment words. Use the `dictionary` index setting to expand the default dictionaries and improve accuracy when working with datasets using domain-specific terms:

```bash
curl \
  -X PUT 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/articles/settings/dictionary' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."]'
```

This feature can be used together with the `stopWords` and `synonyms` index settings:

```json
{
    "dictionary": ["J. R. R.", "J.R.R."],
    "synonyms": {
            "J.R.R.": ["jrr", "J. R. R."],
            "J. R. R.": ["jrr", "J.R.R."],
            "jrr": ["J.R.R.", "J. R. R."],
    }
}
```

Done by @ManyTheFish in #3946

## Other improvements

Meilisearch better hides your data and no longer shows hidden document's fields in error messages. In case you are trying to sort by using a field that is not sortable but there are some of them that are not displayed either, you will see a message like the following:

```
Available sortable attributes are: price, stock, <..hidden-attributes>.
```

Done by @vivek-26 in #3945

# Fixes 🐞

  * Fix synonyms display (#3946) @ManyTheFish
  * Accept the `null` JSON value as a value of the `_vectors` field (#3998) @Kerollmops
  * Fix the ranking rule by temporarily disabling an assert in the bucket sort algorithm (#4013) @Kerollmops

# Misc

  * Bump charabia to 0.8.3 (#4008) @Kerollmops
  * Upgrade Meilisearch dependencies (#3987) @ManyTheFish
  * Upgrade CI dependencies (#3871, #3969 and #3968)
  * Fix CI benchmarks (#3963) @irevoire
  * Removed `borrow` call causing failed nightly tests (#3990) @JannisK89
  * Expose Puffin server to profile the indexing process (#3913) @Kerollmops
  * Update and fix the CI Test Suite (#3918) @Kerollmops
  * Improve CI test suite for manual trigger events (#3989) @curquiza
  * Update README.md (#3895 and #3932) @ferdi05 & @Strift
  * Fix Homebrew CI (#4016) @Kerollmops

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @JannisK89, @vivek-26
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @vvv
