# v1.5.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.5 introduces improvements in indexing speed and the possibility of triggering snapshots on demand.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Indexing speed improvements

v1.5 improves indexing speed for text-heavy datasets. Datasets with fields containing many words (100 or more) should see a reduction of 5% to 20% to indexing times, with gains proportional to the amount of words in a document.

This might result in minor impact to search result relevancy for queries containing 4 words or more. [Contact us in our GitHub Discussions page](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/704) if you have any issues or unexpected behavior regarding the relevancy.

Indexing speed improvements might not be visible in datasets with fewer words (less than 20 words per fields), regardless of how many fields they contain.

Done by @ManyTheFish in #4131

## Snapshots on-demand

This release introduces a new `/snapshots` API route for creating snapshots on demand:

```bash
curl -X POST HTTP://localhost:7700/snapshots
```

This route returns a [summarized task object](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/tasks).

By default, Meilisearch creates snapshots inside the `/snapshots` directory. You can customize this directory with the [`--snapshot-dir` configuration option](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/configuration/instance_options#snapshot-destination).

Done by @irevoire in #4051.

## Experimental feature: Export Puffin reports

This experimental feature allows Meilisearch to automatically export `.puffin`  reports. `.puffin` files provide information on Meilisearch's internal processes and may be useful when diagnosing performance issues.

Use the `/experimental-features` endpoint to activate this feature:
```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
  --data-binary '{
    "exportPuffinReports": true
  }'
```

📣 [Consult the GitHub discussion](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/693) for more information.

Done by @Kerollmops in #4073.

## Other improvements

* The [experimental `/metrics` route](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions/625) can now be activated via HTTP. Done by @braddotcoffee with the review of @vivek-26 in #4126. ⚠️ _Avoid using CLI flag and the API  at the same time when managing experimental features._
* Add Khmer language support (#4169 and meilisearch/charabia#203) @xshadowlegendx and @ManyTheFish
* Integrate the `meilitool` command line interface into the meilisearch Docker image (#4167) @Kerollmops
This tool provides commands to enforce the cancellation of tasks and the creation of dumps for stuck Meilisearch instances.
In the running Meilisearch container, just do `meilitool --help` to get the usage.

# Fixes 🐞
TBD

# Misc

* Update dependencies
  * Bump webpki to 0.22.2 (#4101)
  * Bump rustls-webpki from 0.100.1 to 0.100.2 (#4009)
* CIs and tests
  * Add CI to trigger benchmarks in PR (#4102) @Kerollmops
  * Improve `test-suite.yml` to prevent CI from failing when disabling tokenization (#4005) @harshau007
  * Add more integrations to SDK CI (#4044) @curquiza
  * Dependency issue is now created every 6 months (#4065) @curquiza
  * Rename benchmark CI file so it is easier to find in the manifest list (#4125) @curquiza
  * Update CI dependencies
  * Fix warning in CI (#4174) @irevoire
* Misc
  * Enable analytics in debug builds (#4074) @irevoire
  * Rewrite `segment_analytics` module with destructuring syntax (#4056) @vivek-26

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @braddotcoffee, @harshau007, and @vivek-26.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @choznerol and @xshadowlegendx.
