# v1.7.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.7.0 focuses on improving v1.6.0 features, indexing speed and hybrid search.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Improved AI-powered search — Experimental

🗣️ AI work is still experimental and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677).

To use it, you need to enable `vectorSearch` through [the `/experimental-features` route](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/reference/api/experimental_features).

💡 More documentation about AI search with Meilisearch [here](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/experimental/vector_search#vector-search-with-auto-embeddings).

### Add new OpenAI embedding models & abbility to override their models dimensions

When [configuring  OpenAI embedders](https://www.meilisearch.com/docs/learn/experimental/vector_search#generate-auto-embeddings-with-openai)), you can now specify two new models:
- `text-embedding-3-small` with a default dimension of 1536.
- `text-embedding-3-large` with a default dimension of 3072.

The new models:
- are cheaper
- produce more relevant results in standardized tests
- allow to set up the dimensions of the embeddings to control the trade-off between accuracy and performance (including storage)

It means that it is now possible to pass the dimensions field when using the `OpenAi` source. This was previously only available for the `userProvided` source in the previous releases.

```json5
"embedders": {
  "large": {
    "source": "openAi",
    "model": "text-embedding-3-large",
    "dimensions": 512 // must be >0, must be <= 3072 for "text-embedding-3-large"
  },
  "small": {
    "source": "openAi",
    "model": "text-embedding-3-small",
    "dimensions": 1024 // must be >0, must be <= 1536 for "text-embedding-3-small"
  },
  "legacy": {
    "source": "openAi",
    "model": "text-embedding-ada-002",
    "dimensions": 1536 // must =1536  for "text-embedding-ada-002"
  },
  "omitted_dimensions": { // uses the default dimension
    "source": "openAi",
    "model": "text-embedding-ada-002",
  }
}
```

Done in #4375 by @Gosti.

### GPU support when computing Hugging Face embeddings

Enabling the CUDA feature allows using an available GPU to compute embeddings with a `huggingFace` embedder.
On an AWS Graviton 2, this yields a x3 - x5 improvement on indexing time.

👇 How to enable GPU support through CUDA for HuggingFace embedding generation:

**Prerequisites**

- Linux distribution with a compatible CUDA version
- NVidia GPU with CUDA support
- A recent Rust compiler to compile Meilisearch from source

**Steps**

1. Follow [the guide](https://huggingface.github.io/candle/guide/installation.html) to install the CUDA dependencies
2. Clone Meilisearch: `git clone https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch.git`
3. Compile Meilisearch with the `cuda` feature: `cargo build --release --package meilisearch --features cuda`
4. In the freshly compiled Meilisearch, enable the vector store experimental feature:
```bash
❯ curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/experimental-features/' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json'  \
--data-binary '{ "vectorStore": true }'
```
5. Add an HuggingFace embedder to the settings:
```bash
curl \
-X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/your_index/settings/embedders' \
-H 'Content-Type: application/json' --data-binary \
'{ "default": { "source": "huggingFace" } }'
```

Done by @dureuill in #4304.

## Improved indexing speed and reduced memory crashes

* Auto-batch task deletion to reduce indexing time (#4316) @irevoire
* Improved indexing speed for vector store ([Hybrid search experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677) indexing time more than 10 times faster) (#4332) @Kerollmops @irevoire
* Reduce memory usage, so reduce the memory crashes, by caping the maximum memory of the grenad sorters (#4388) @Kerollmops
* Added [multiple technical and internal indexing improvements](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/pull/4350) (#4350) @ManyTheFish

## Stabilized `showRankingScoreDetails`

The `showRankingScoreDetails` search parameter, first introduce as an experimental feature in Meilisearch [v1.3.0](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/releases/tag/v1.3.0), is now a stable feature.

Use it with the `/search` endpoint to view detailed scores per ranking rule for each returned document:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/search' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{ "q": "Batman Returns", "showRankingScoreDetails": true }'
```

When `showRankingScoreDetails` is set to `true`, returned documents include a `_rankingScoreDetails` field:

```json
"_rankingScoreDetails": {
  "words": {
    "order": 0,
    "matchingWords": 1,
    "maxMatchingWords": 1,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "typo": {
    "order": 1,
    "typoCount": 0,
    "maxTypoCount": 1,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "proximity": {
    "order": 2,
    "score": 1.0
  },
  "attribute": {
    "order": 3,
    "attributes_ranking_order": 0.8,
    "attributes_query_word_order": 0.6363636363636364,
    "score": 0.7272727272727273
  },
  "exactness": {
    "order": 4,
    "matchType": "noExactMatch",
    "matchingWords": 0,
    "maxMatchingWords": 1,
    "score": 0.3333333333333333
  }
}
```

Done by @dureuill in #4389.

## Improved logging

We made some changes regarding our logs to help with debugging and bug reporting.

Done by @irevoire in #4391

### Log format change

⚠️ If you did any automation based on Meilisearch logs, be aware of the changes. More information [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/Logs-trace-changes-in-v1-7-0-6dd111ecd66448aba30d2f3cef212749).

The default log format evolved slightly from this:

```bash
[2024-02-06T14:54:11Z INFO  actix_server::builder] starting 10 workers
```

To this:

```bash
2024-02-06T13:58:14.710803Z  INFO actix_server::builder: 200: starting 10 workers
```

### Log output format — Experimental

And one new CLI parameter is introduced called `--experimental_logs_format`. This lets you specify the log format you want to use on the console.

Accepted values are:

- `human`: the default human-readable one
- `json`: JSON structured logs

🗣️ This feature is experimental, and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/723).

⚠️ Experimental features may be incompatible between Meilisearch versions.

### New `/logs/stream` and `/logs/stderr` routes — Experimental

This new version of Meilisearch introduces 3 new experimental routes
- `POST /logs/stream`: streams the log happening in real-time. Requires two parameters:
  - `target`: defines the log level and on which part of the engine you want to apply it. It takes the form of `code_part=log_level`, for example, `index_scheduler=info`. If you want to apply the changes to the whole engine, omit `code_part=`. Valid values for log level are: `trace,` `debug,` `info,` `warn,` `error`, or `off`.
  - `mode`: selects in what format of log you want. Two options are available: `fmt` (basic logs) or `profile` (a way more complex trace)
- `DELETE /logs/stream`: stops the listener from the meilisearch perspective. Does not require any parameters.
- `POST /logs/stderr`: Update the log level used in the console. It takes one parameter, `target`, which is the same as the target of the `POST /logs/stream` route.

An example to disable any log from actix, but to keep all other logs at the `DEBUG` level:

```bash
curl \
  -X POST http://localhost:7700/logs/stream \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
      "mode": "human",
      "target": "actix=off,debug"
    }'
```

💡 *More information in the [New experimental routes section of this file](https://meilisearch.notion.site/Logs-trace-changes-in-v1-7-0-6dd111ecd66448aba30d2f3cef212749).*

⚠️ Some remarks on this `POST /logs/stream` route:
- You can have only one listener at a time
- Listening to the route doesn’t seem to work with `xh` or `httpie` for the moment
- When killing the listener, it may stay installed on Meilisearch for some time, and you will need to call the `DELETE /logs/stream` route to get rid of it.

🗣️ This feature is experimental, and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/721).

⚠️ Experimental features may be incompatible between Meilisearch versions.

## Other improvements

* [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): add job variable to Grafana dashboard (#4330) @capJavert
* Multiple language support improvements, including expanded Vietnamese normalization (Ð and Đ into d). Now uses Charabia [v0.8.7](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia/releases/tag/v0.8.7). (#4365) @agourlay, @choznerol, @ngdbao, @timvisee, @xshadowlegendx, and @ManyTheFish

# Fixes 🐞

TBD

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump rustls-webpki from 0.101.3 to 0.101.7 (#4263)
  * Bump h2 from 0.3.20 to 0.3.24 (#4345)
  * Update the dependencies (#4332) @Kerollmops
* CIs and tests
  * Update SDK test dependencies (#4293) @curquiza
* Documentation
  * Add Setting API reminder in issue template (#4325) @ManyTheFish
  * Update README (#4319) @codesmith-emmy
  * Fix broken links in README.md (#4360) @Elliot67
* Misc
  * Fix compilation warnings (#4295) @irevoire

❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @capJavert, @codesmith-emmy, @Elliot67 and @Gosti
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @agourlay, @choznerol, @ngdbao, @timvisee, and @xshadowlegendx
