# v1.8.0 release changelogs

<!-- The following line should ONLY be put PRE-release changelogs -->
⚠️ Since this is a release candidate (RC), we do NOT recommend using it in a production environment. Is something not working as expected? We welcome [bug reports](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/new/choose) and [feedback about new features](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/discussions).

Meilisearch v1.8 introduces new changes and optimizations related to the Hybrid search with the addition of new models and embedders like REST embedders and the Ollama model. This version also focuses on stability by adding more security around the search requests. Finally, we introduce the negative operator to exclude specific terms from a search query.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
🧰 All official Meilisearch integrations (including SDKs, clients, and other tools) are compatible with this Meilisearch release. Integration deployment happens between 4 to 48 hours after a new version becomes available.

<!-- The following lines should NOT be put in the PRE-release changelogs -->
Some SDKs might not include all new features—consult the project repository for detailed information. Is a feature you need missing from your chosen SDK? Create an issue letting us know you need it, or, for open-source karma points, open a PR implementing it (we'll love you for that ❤️).

# New features and improvements 🔥

## Hybrid search improvements

Full description of hybrid search changes [here](https://meilisearch.notion.site/v1-8-AI-search-API-usage-135552d6e85a4a52bc7109be82aeca42).

🗣️ This is an experimental feature and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677).

Done by @dureuill and @jakobklemm in #4456, #4537, #4509, #4548, #4549.

### ⚠️ Breaking changes of hybrid search usage

TBD: still in review?

* To ease the search answer speed, Meilisearch no longer returns the query vector in the search response. The `vector` field will not be displayed.
* `_semanticScore` is no longer returned in the search response. The `_rankingScore` field has the same value as the `_semanticScore`, and should be used in its place. To get the `_rankingScore` value, add `"showRankingScore": true` to the search query.
* When adding `"showRankingScoreDetails": true` to a semantic search query, the vector and its `value` are no longer displayed to improve the search speed.

### New embedders: generic REST embedder and Ollama model

New embedder sources have been added
- `ollama` source
- `rest` source

**REST embedder**

Meilisearch now supports any REST embedder. You can set them up with the following configuration:

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "rest", // 👈 Use the REST source
  "url": "http://localhost:12345/api/v1/embed",
  // ☝️ Mandatory, full URL to the embedding endpoint
  "apiKey": "187HFLDH97CNHN",
  // ☝️ optional, will be passed as Bearer in the Authorization header
  "dimensions": 512,
  // ☝️ optional, inferred with a dummy request if missing
  "documentTemplate": "blabla",
  "inputField": ["data", "text"],
  // ☝️ inject texts in data.text in the query
  // Optional, defaults to []
  "inputType": "text", // text or textArray
  // ☝️ inject a single text
  // Optional, defaults to text
  "query": {
    // A JSON object describing other fields to send in a query
    // for example
    "model": "name-of-your-model",
    "dimensions": 512
  },
  // ☝️ A JSON object describing other fields to send in a query
  // Optional, defaults to {}
  "pathToEmbeddings": ["data"],
  // ☝️ look at embeddings in "data" in the response
  // Optional, defaults to []
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
  // ☝️ look at the embedding inside of "embedding"
  // Optional, defaults to []
}
```

Here is an example of setting OpenAI embedder with the `rest` source:

```json5
{
  "source": "rest",
  "apiKey": "<your-openai-api-key>",
  "dimensions": 1536,
  "url": "https://api.openai.com/v1/embeddings",
  "query": {
    "model": "text-embedding-ada-002"
  },
  "inputField": ["input"],
  "inputType": "textArray",
  "pathToEmbeddings": ["data"],
  "embeddingObject": ["embedding"]
}
```

**Ollama model**

Here is how to set up the Ollama model:

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "ollama", // 👈 Use the REST source
  "url": "http://localhost:11434/api/embeddings",
  // ☝️ optional, fetched from MEILI_OLLAMA_URL environment variable if missing
  "apiKey": "<foobarbaz>",
  // ☝️ optional
  "model": "nomic-embed-text",
  "documentTemplate": "blabla" // like for openAI and huggingFace sources
}

```

### Expose the `distribution` shift setting

When setting an embedder, you can now set the `distribution` shift.

```json5
"default": {
  "source": "huggingFace", // supported for any source
  "model": "some/model",
  "distribution": {  // describes the natural distribution of results
    "mean": 0.7, // mean value
    "sigma": 0.3 // variance
  }
}
```

The “distribution shift” is an affine transformation applied to the `semanticScore` of a vector search result with the aim of making the comparison to the `rankingScore` of a keyword search result more meaningful.

### Other hybrid search improvements

* Hide the API key in settings and task queue (#4533) @dureuill
* Return the keyword search results even in case of a failure of the embedding (#4548) @dureuill

## Support negative keyword when searching

Search queries can now contain a negative keyword to exclude terms from the search. Use the `-` operator in front of a word or a phrase to make sure no document that contains those words are shown in the results.

- `-escape` returns a placeholder search without any document contains the `escape` word.
- `-escape room` returns only documents containing the `room` word but not the `escape` one.
- `-"on demand"` returns a placeholder search but without any document containing the `"on demand"` phrase.

Done by @Kerollmops in #4535.

## Search robustness improvements

### Add a search cutoff

To avoid any crash and performance issues, Meilisearch now stops search requests lasting more than 150ms.

If you want to customize this value, you can update the `search_cutoff` settings (value in ms):

```bash
curl \
  -X PATCH 'http://localhost:7700/indexes/movies/settings' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data-binary '{
    "search_cutoff": 50
  }'
```

The default value of the `search_cutoff` setting is `null` and corresponds to 150ms.

Done by @irevoire in #4466.

### Limit concurrent search requests

Meilisearch now limits the number of search requests waiting to be processed to avoid consuming an unbounded amount of RAM and crashing. So a queue of search requests waiting to be processed has been introduced.

👉 This change does NOT impact the search performance, but only the number of enqueued search requests to prevent from any security issues.

The default number of requests in the queue is 1000.

To change this limit, use the experimental CLI flag:

```bash
./meilisearch --experimental-search-queue-size 100
```

🗣️ This is an experimental flag and we need your help to improve it! Share your thoughts and feedback on this [GitHub discussion](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/729).

Done by @irevoire in #4536

## Other improvements

* Reduce indexing speed when updating settings (#4504) @ManyTheFish -> TBD: still in review or merged?
* The `sortFacetValuesBy` setting now impacts the `/facet-search` route (#4476) @Kerollmops
* Related to [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): add `status` code label to the HTTP request counter (#4373) @rohankmr414
* Tokenizer improvements by bumping charabia to 0.8.8 (#4511) @6543
  * Support markdown formatted code blocks
  * Improve Korean segmentation to correctly use the context ID registered in the dictionary

# Fixes 🐞

* Related to [Prometheus experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/625): fix the HTTP request duration histogram bucket boundaries to follow the OpenTelemetry spec (#4530) @rohankmr414
* Related to [Hybrid search experimental feature](https://github.com/orgs/meilisearch/discussions/677): fix an [error on Windows](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/4399) when generating embeddings (#4549) @dureuill

# Misc

* Dependencies upgrade
  * Bump mio from 0.8.9 to 0.8.11 (#4457)
  * Upgrade rustls to 0.21.10 and ring to 0.17 (#4400) @hack3ric
* CIs and tests
  * Add automation to create openAPI issue (#4520) @curquiza
  * Add tests when the field limit is reached (#4463) @irevoire
  * Allow running benchmarks without sending results to the dashboard (#4475) @dureuill
  * Create automation when creating Milestone to create update-version issue (#4416) @curquiza
  * Fix reason param when benches are triggered from a comment (#4483) @dureuill
* Documentation
  * Fix milli link in contributing doc (#4499) @mohsen-alizadeh
  * Fix some typos in comments (#4546) @redistay
  * Remove repetitive words in Benchmark docs (#4526) @availhang
  * Remove repetitive words in code-base comments (#4491) @shuangcui
  * Update sprint_issue.md (#4516) @curquiza
  * Add documentation for benchmarks (#4477) @dureuill
  * Fix typos (#4542) @brunoocasali
* Misc
  * Update cargo version (#4474) @curquiza
  * Fix milli/Cargo.toml for usage as dependency via git (#4547) @Toromyx


❤️ Thanks again to our external contributors:
- [Meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch): @availhang, @hack3ric, @jakobklemm, @mohsen-alizadeh, @redistay, @rohankmr414, @shuangcui, @Toromyx, @6543.
- [Charabia](https://github.com/meilisearch/charabia): @mosuka, @6543
