# Roadmap 2021

This is the roadmap planned by the Core Team at MeiliSearch for the year 2021.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2021: the Main Lines

- Release the new search engine version: integrate Transplant (that uses Milli) into MeiliSearch.
- V1: release a stable version of MeiliSearch.
- Sort By: display documents in a given order.
- Geo search: search for documents that are in specific locations.
- High availability: be sure that you always keep a server up to answer
- Authorization layer: ability to control access of people and visible scopes.
- Improve the tokenizer: handle more languages.

## Q1

- [X] Release the new tokenizer
- [X] Start integration of Milli -> Transplant repository
- [X] Integrate Query Tree into Milli
- [X] Integrate `typo`, `words`, and `proximity` into Milli

## Q2

- [X] Start some benchmarks
- [X] Version the core-team repositories
- _Reported, waiting for internal decision_ Publish the core-team repositories to crates.io
- [X] Release the first RC of MeiliSearch v0.21.0 that integrates the new search engine (Transplant + Milli)
- _Reported to Q3_ Release v0.21.0 of MeiliSearch

## Q3
### Goals

- Reduce biggest user's deal-breakers.
- Start to stabilize the API format block by block until v1.0. 
- Understand our user's behaviors.
- Patch v0.21 indexing speed.
### Internal

- [ ] Release v0.21.0
- [ ] Publish core-team repositories (depending on internal decisions)
  - [ ] tokenizer
  - [ ] milli
  - [ ] lmdb-rs
- [ ] Cron job CI to run some SDKs tests
- [ ] MeiliSearch (e.g. Transplant) documentation
- [ ] Indexation benchmarks (Patch v0.21 indexing speed)

### New features

#### Reduce biggest user's deal-breakers
- [ ] SortBy
- [ ] Geo search

#### Patch v0.21 indexing speed
- [ ] Indexing NDJSON file format
- [ ] Indexing CSV file format
- [ ] Indexer optimization

#### Understand our user's behaviors.
- [ ] Branch analytics at feature level (On those planned in this quarter)

#### Stabilize the API format block by block until v1.0.
- [ ] Clean API Format
  - [ ] Search
  - [ ] Documents
  - [ ] Updates
  - [ ] Indexes

### Optimization

- [ ] Indexer
