# Roadmap 2022

This is the roadmap planned by the core team at Meilisearch for the year 2022.

⚠️ This is not the product roadmap that is available on the product team side, but the main goal to reach for the core team in general.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2022: the main lines

### Road to Meilisearch v1 🚀

The product team plans a lot of changes to stabilize the API during 2022. The core team should not only be ready regarding these requirements but also regarding the processes to be able to release stable versions of Meilisearch.

The workflows and the automation, including milli and the tokenizer, should be improved. We need to be clear about any process; for example, we need to define what we consider as breaking or not for a stabilized version.

It also means being more "professional" by building strong tests improving our benchmarks so that we can anticipate the failures and the loss of performance.

### Keep working with the community 👥

We strongly believe building a product in open source is the safest way to provide a product that will last in the long term. We indeed think the community is one of our biggest advantages since we get contributions, but also feedback that is also very valuable. Plus, having the code in public enforce us to work in a clean and clear way. This makes it more reliable in the long term.

We want to increase the participation regarding fixes (quick or not), technical discussions where we would need more insights, and any feedback in general.

### Recruitments 🦀

Since we want to focus on more technical tasks, the core team needs to hire experts and senior people.

We also plan to hire an intern to make them discover open-source and fall in love with Rust. This will make Meilisearch more visible but also attract young developers. Our final plan would be to start a kind of internship program in the future if we have the possibility regarding the HR team.

### More R&D phases 🔍

In the past year, we were mostly focused on refactoring the search engine (v0.21.0) and right after on adding new features. This leads to the following issue: we don't know our search engine perfectly. For example, we don't perfectly know the limits and what are potential improvements we could make.

We need to take time by testing and trying things in our own codebase to be aware of our limits but also to ease our decision-making in the future by knowing what is doable or not.

### Find the good rhythm 🏃‍♀️

Compared to the past year, we now have a more complex codebase, and we have to change our release rhythm. We want to find the best way to handle our releases regarding our needs, but also depending on the product team and on the other teams.

This would probably involve trying different ways of working to find what fits the most. We need to find the right balance between the R&D phases, maintenance, and implementation.

### Work with the other teams 🤝

Since Meilisearch is famous for attracting professional developers, developing a single core engine is not enough. Especially, we need to work with the docs team and the integration team. During this year, we will need to integrate the Cloud team into our process too.

To release a complete feature, we need to be coordinate with all the team to ensure the best search experience. This would involve more and more synchronization and work between the teams.

### Improve the search engine experience 🛠

Regarding this point, more details are available on the product team roadmap, but here are the main goals:
- Tenant tokens
- Nested fields
- Federated search
- Enhance some customization
- Improve the indexation speed
- Improve the tokenizer
- Stabilize the API routes, essential for the Cloud team

## Q1 2022

- [X] Change the Meilisearch release rhythm and adapt the team to it. 4 weeks of implementation / 4 weeks of pre-release.
- [X] Do the first pre-release tasks, i.e., discovery/R&D/maintainance tasks between 2 sprints.
- [X] Start the first R&D regarding indexation speed improvement.
- [X] Start improvement tasks regarding the tokenizer: make the tokenizer more contribuable in order to let the community add their language support easily.
- [X] Implement, or at least, start working on the required features by the product team (nested fields, tenant tokens <s>federated search</s>)
- [X] Start the recruitment process to hire an intern.
- [X] Release our first experimental feature: auto-batching.
- [ ] *Delayed to prioratize the Cloud team recruitments* - Start the recruitment process to hire an expert to help us with the technical parts.

## Q2 2022

- [X] Finish the recruitment process to hire an intern. Depending on the intern, the onboarding will be in Q2 or later.
- [X] Start process to hire a senior software engineer.
- [X] Release v0.27.0 including indexation speed improvements, the nested field support, the typo tolerance customization, the stabilization/improvement of the cropping & highlighting.
- [X] Keep being more and more transparent regarding the pre-release tasks each developer makes: write down regularly on GitHub the context, the hypotheses, the results & conclusions, the graphs, the metrics...
- [X] Keep improving the indexation speed: work with constraints, add benchmarks to prove the change is valuable...
- [X] v0.28.0: stabilize the API routes. v0.28.0 will be released at the beginning of Q3 but the specs and the whole sprint is during Q2.
- [X] Keep working on the tokenizer
  - [X] Clarify the organization regarding the issue management
  - [X] Make it more contribuable in order to let the community add their language support easily
  - [X] Publish the tokenizer to crates.io
- [ ] *Started in Q2* - Autobatching feature: stabilize it, or at least start to work on the stabilization.
- [ ] *Delayed* Automate our release process by deploying releasemops 🤖

## Q3 2022

The core team has two main goals for this quarter: to improve the product and also include the future release of v1 in our decisions.

### Road to v1

Since API stabilization has been done in v0.28.0, the core team is close to releasing v1. The following list still needs to be done:

- [ ] Stabilize the auto-batching feature
  - [X] this feature is available by default but can be disable.
  - [ ] this feature works in a completely transparent way, thus making it not visible to the users -> not enough feedback to be fully transparent.
- [ ] Clean and stabilize the Meilisearch CLI -> Collecting feedback already started, but the implementation will be done next quarter.
- [X] Ensure the API key management feature is stabilized -> we did not get any feedback about API that would involve changing the API key feature.
- [X] Starting discussion about versioning policy

v1 will not be released during Q3, but we hope to be able to release it by the end of the year or by the beginning of 2023 -> A date has been decided for beginning of Febuary 2023.

### Improve the Meilisearch product

This part is tightly related to the product team and is mostly decided on their side via the Product Squads and user discussions.

- [X] Release v0.28.0 (11th July) containing the API stabilization. Handle the support and the user feedback following the massive breaking changes.
- [X] Release v0.29.0 (September)
  - [X] Including the `matchingStrategy` parameter
  - [X] Improving the filtering experience
  - [X] Improving the document deletion speed
  - [ ] Fixing user pain points like pagination -> is delayed to v0.30.0, so Q4 2022.
  - [ ] Adding really demanded features like multi-index search -> not a priority for 2022 anymore regarding the features we need to prioritize first for v1
- [X] Start v0.30.0 implementation, including search pagination and remove user frustrations to be more production ready

### Team

- [X] Finish the recruitment process to hire a senior software engineer.
- [ ] Onboard the new software engineer -> The person arrives next quarter.
- [X] Adapt the team synchronization and rhythm according to the Product Squad (PS) freshly introduced by the product team -> We had some delay but we found out the new way of working with Product Squad better fits the needs of the team.

### Misc

- [ ] Finish internship work on Jayson. Integrate it to one or two routes on the Meilisearch side. -> We don't know yet if we will prioritize it in Q4 2022 due to the huge breaking it can lead.
- [X] Work with the devrel team to promote the contributions we need on the tokenizer side -> done during Hacktoberfest, so Q4 2022.
- [X] Keep improving indexation speed/crash
  - [ ] by gathering user feedback and use-cases and creating benchmarks according to them: we'll ensure we succeeded or not the improvement -> We are working on creating use-case benchmarks in Q4 2022.
  - [X] by keep investigating and trying new technical solutions on our side -> we made a lot of changes described in [this issue](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch/issues/2132).

## Q4 2022

This quarter is the last one we have to prepare v1 in good condition. This way, we have prioritized tasks that would help the team deliver Meilisearch v1: a stable and impactful version of Meilisearch.
It also means we will de-prioritize implementations that could impact in a bad way the critical features of Meilisearch, like improving the indexing speed in a way that would risk making the indexing fail.

Q4 is also the quarter where the Hacktoberfest is happening and this will lead us to spend time on it. We created a lot if issues during Q3, especially regarding the language support, and we hope attract the community and make them contribute in October.

### v1 work

- [ ] Be production ready for v1
  - [ ] Release the missing production-ready features: index swap, cancel/delete of tasks, and other missing features noticed by the product team.
  - [ ] We know Meilisearch can have bugs/crashes impacting the stability of the search engine in production. In the best world, the RAM consumption should be appropriate when indexing and searching. It means our priority during this quarter is to identify the different weaknesses of Meilisearch and make decision about them: being transparent with the users is the most important part to achieve if the problem cannot be solved by any implementation before v1.
  - [ ] Define more precisely what kind of distribution we support. Transparency is the key to this point. Then, we need to ensure we have tests/CIs appropriate to them.
  For example, what about the Debian 10 distribution? And what about Windows and the prioritization we should give to it? Indeed, all the features of Meilisearch do not work with Windows so far, like dumps. It's important to provide transparency about it.
- [ ] Define our versioning policy process post v1
- [ ] Define our beta/deprecated process post v1
- [ ] Create some benchmarks of concrete use cases. We need to define the real objectives of the project, how to ensure to make it useful at the end. Create a Product Squad for it and manage it as a new feature of Meilisearch could be a good start.

### Team

- [ ] Onboard the new senior software engineer: at the beginning of November, we welcome a new software engineer to the team.
- [ ] This is the end of the internship of one of our teammates. Following a promotion, we want to integrate him in the sprint as any developer of the team.
- [ ] Increase the communication and synchronization
  - [ ] Reconsider some of our meeting formats: weekly meetings and retrospectives.
  - [ ] Define some communication rules to ensure everyone gets all the information and is reactive and accountable when pinged (GitHub and Slack).
- [ ] Reconsider the name of the team that is currently "core team". We noticed this name is not adapted to the job of the team; indeed "core team" in most companies is often the central team that makes important decisions. Also, this name can feel uninclusive, giving the team the feeling of being central and more important than the others. Even if we don't have the time to find a new name, we would like to, at least, start the discussions with the whole team during Q4.
- [ ] Share more metrics in the team and even outside the team. Be more transparent about what we do regarding metrics. This is a vague objective and can take a lot of time to be "solved", but this is something the team would like to keep in mind.

### Release process

- [ ] Ensure we don't have issues when releasing new Meilisearch versions like we had in v0.29.1: we indeed had git conflicts that led us to integrate non-stable commits (from `main` into the `stable`). We don't know yet how to avoid it or if it can be solved by automating this step or not, but we want to watch out for this.
- [ ] Increase our velocity by simplifying some processes: we noticed the [Milli repository](https://github.com/meilisearch/milli/), by being separated from the [Meilisearch repository](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch), introduces a lot of paint points during our release process. A bug in Meilisearch, which is actually in Milli, forces us to do the fix in Milli, update the Milli version, release the new Milli version and then bump the new Milli version in Meilisearch. Also, when we want to do hotfixes on Meilisearch where Milli is involved (i.e. release a specific version of Milli that does not contain all the current commits on `main`) we have to do tricky git manipulation to ensure we don't add extra commits.
We are not sure we will have the time to do the final transfer during Q4 if we decide to do it, but we would like at least start discussions together and make some decisions about it.
- [ ] Automate some processes if possible. We know our current release process is heavy and can lead to mistakes despite [our current documentation](../resources/meilisearch-release.md). We will probably lack time for this, but at least thinking about some solutions could be a good start.
