# Roadmap 2021

This is the roadmap planned by the Core Team at MeiliSearch for the year 2021.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2021: the Main Lines

- Release the new search engine version: integrate Transplant (that uses Milli) into MeiliSearch.
- V1: release a stable version of MeiliSearch.
- Sort By: display documents in a given order.
- Geo search: search for documents that are in specific locations.
- High availability: be sure that you always keep a server up to answer
- Authorization layer: ability to control access of people and visible scopes.
- Improve the tokenizer: handle more languages.

## Q1

- [X] Release the new tokenizer
- [X] Start integration of Milli -> Transplant repository
- [X] Integrate Query Tree into Milli
- [X] Integrate `typo`, `words`, and `proximity` into Milli

## Q2

- [X] Start some benchmarks
- [X] Version the core-team repositories
- _Reported, waiting for internal decision_ Publish the core-team repositories to crates.io
- [X] Release the first RC of MeiliSearch v0.21.0 that integrates the new search engine (Transplant + Milli)
- _Reported to Q3_ Release v0.21.0 of MeiliSearch

## Q3

### Goals

- Reduce biggest user's deal-breakers.
- Start to stabilize the API format block by block until v1.0.
- Understand our user's behaviors.
- Patch v0.21 indexing speed.

### Internal

- [X] Release v0.21.0
- (_Delayed to 2022. Wait for internal decision_) Publish core-team repositories (depending on internal decisions)
  - [ ] tokenizer
  - [ ] milli
  - [ ] lmdb-rs
- (_Delayed to Q4_) Cron job CI to run some SDKs tests
- [X] MeiliSearch (e.g. Transplant) documentation
- [X] Indexation benchmarks (patch v0.21 indexing speed)

### New features

#### Reduce biggest user's deal-breakers

- [X] SortBy
- [X] Geo search

#### Patch v0.21 indexing speed

- [X] Indexing NDJSON file format
- [X] Indexing CSV file format
- [X] Indexer optimization

#### Understand our user's behaviors.

- (_Delayed to Q4_) Branch analytics at feature level

#### Stabilize the API format block by block until v1.0.

- (_Delayed to 2022. Needs more organization_) Clean API Format
  - [ ] Search
  - [ ] Documents
  - [ ] Updates
  - [ ] Indexes

## Q4

### Goals

Be production ready by integrating missing features: multi-tenancy and HA.

### New features

- [ ] HA first version [product/#49](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/49)
- [ ] Multi-tenancy [product/#51](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/51)
- [ ] Refashion updates/task [product/#48](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/48)
  - [ ] Rename update → task
  - [ ] Add new routes (global task routes)
  - [ ] Reformat the HTTP responses
  - [ ] Bonus: cursor for pagination [product/#190](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/190)
- [ ] Asynchronous index behavior: delete, create and update index are asynchronous [product/#203](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/203)
- [ ] Auto batching of tasks [product/#69](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/69)
- [ ] Analytics: centralize them in one single DB (Segment by Twilio) [product/#183](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/183)
- [ ] Error definition [specifications/#61](https://github.com/meilisearch/specifications/pull/61)
- [ ] Limit number of positions [product/#202](https://github.com/meilisearch/product/issues/202)

### Maintenance

- [ ] Improve test for errors
- [ ] Publish a nightly image of MeiliSearch
- [ ] Cron test running the test suite of SDKs
- [ ] Docker image for ARM

### R&D (?)

- [ ] Start POC about segment for "Search on the Edge" project
